The Crimson
Student Handbook
2024-25

Student Responsibilities
The Grove City College student handbook, The Crimson, is a resource; it does not constitute a contract
between the student and the college.
The information, policies, and procedures outlined in this 2024-2025 edition of The Crimson supersede
those found in previous editions and are subject to change, update, amendment, and/or other modification
at any time. The College also reserves the right to modify or discontinue any of the services, programs, or
activities described in this handbook. When changes occur, the online version of The Crimson will be
updated and students will be notified.
By virtue of your enrollment as a student, you enjoy the privileges and accept the responsibilities of being
a member of the Grove City College (GCC) community. This includes the obligation to know and adhere
to College policies and standards as described in this Handbook and other official College documents.
While these policies and standards establish a baseline of expectation, you should ultimately strive to
conduct yourself in a manner that brings honor to God, the College, and yourself. This includes
demonstrating honesty, integrity, respect, compassion, the encouragement of others, self-discipline,
stewardship, good sportsmanship, freedom from discrimination and prejudice, and social responsibility.

The Crimson Student Handbook
2024-2025
Published by
The Office of Student Life and Learning
Grove City College
100 Campus Drive
Grove City, PA 16127
StudentLife@GCC.edu
724-458-2171

1

Greetings from President McNulty
Dear Students,
A key distinctive of Grove City College is how we value our community. We are intentional about the
way we learn and live together. At a time when civility and respect are on the decline, we strive to
emphasize the importance of love of neighbor as the foundation of our campus life. This handbook is an
important component of our community-building efforts. You will read about the almost countless
opportunities that await you. You will also be encouraged to always act in a manner that is safe and
cooperative. As an academic community that strives to be Christ-centered, we seek to cultivate the
virtuous life, marked by kindness, generosity, courtesy, and hospitality. Our well-deserved reputation as
one of the friendliest colleges in America means we are all cultural stewards of this blessed institution.
Brenda and I look forward to being a part of your lives. Please drop me a note if you want to visit or grab
a meal together.
May God bless you abundantly this year.
Warm regards,
Paul J. McNulty ’80
Greetings from the President of your Student Government [SGA]
Dear Students of Grove City College,
Welcome! You have joined an amazing community—a family—made up of so many unique people that
are held together by their love for GCC and what it stands for. Whether you are a recent high school
graduate, transfer student, or coming off a gap year, we are so happy you have decided to be here. These
next years, I hope will be full of both fun and growth as you prepare for where God is calling you to after
GCC. Remember—college is not only a place, but also a process of preparation. It is a place of inbetween—a place of liminality.
I encourage you all to intentionally seek out relationships at Grove City College. Check on your
roommate often, even if you have opposite personalities. Head to events and meals with your hall,
connection group, club, or just the people you met playing volleyball on the Quad. Reach out to that
upper-classman and see if they have an interest in mentoring you, or simply hanging out over the
weekend. It’s an amazing thing when you can truly seek to know someone new for who they are. But
remember to take your alone time with the Lord, as your relationship with Him is the most important of
them all.
You are now an integral part of Grove City College; your presence here defines this campus and its
people. Use that presence to uplift the people around you and seek God’s glory in your studies. These
next years will stick with you for your entire life, so endeavor to make them years full of life and love for
both you and everyone around you.
Blessings,
Ezekiel Esteban
Grove City College ‘25
Executive President, Student Government Association

2

Purpose and Identity of Grove City College
Since its founding in 1876, Grove City College, committed to Christian principles, has striven to be equal
in academic quality to the finest four-year colleges. It seeks to provide liberal and professional education
of the highest excellence in the reach of families with modest means who desire a college which will
strengthen their children’s spiritual and moral character.
When the College was chartered, a broad, Christian-based cultural consensus prevailed in America. By
charter, the doors of the College were open to qualified students “without regard to religious test or
belief.”
The founders of Grove City College, consciously avoiding narrow sectarianism, held a vision of Christian
society transcending denomination, creeds, and confessions. They were committed to the advancement of
free enterprise, civil and religious liberty, representative government, arts and letters, and science and
technology. Believing that the fruits of civilization would be destroyed if the religious and ethical roots
were allowed to wither, the founders intended that the claims of Christ as God and Savior and of inspired
Scripture be presented to all.
They hoped that through its program of intellectual, moral, and spiritual education, Grove City College
would produce young leaders, whatever their creed or confession, capable of pushing civilization forward
on every frontier.
Grove City College remains true to the vision of its founders. Rejecting relativism and secularism, it
fosters intellectual, moral, spiritual, and social development consistent with a commitment to Christian
truth, morals, and freedom. Rather than political, ideological, or philosophical agendas, objective truth
continues as the goal of liberal learning.
The core of the curriculum, particularly in the humanities, consists of books, thinkers, and ideas proven
across the ages to be of value in the quest for knowledge. Intellectual inquiry remains open to the
questions religion raises and affirms the answers Christianity offers.
The ethical absolutes of the Ten Commandments and Christ’s moral teaching guide the effort to develop
intellect and character in the classroom, chapel, and cocurricular activities. And while many points of
view are examined, the College unapologetically advocates preservation of America’s religious, political,
and economic heritage of individual freedom and responsibility.

3

Our timeless mission, vision, and values…
Mission
Grove City College equips students to pursue their unique callings through a Christ-centered,
academically excellent, and affordable learning and living experience.
Vision
Grove City College strives to be a highly distinctive and comprehensive Christian liberal arts college of
extraordinary value. Grounded in permanent ideas and conservative values and committed to the
foundations of free society, we develop leaders of the highest proficiency, purpose, and principles ready
to advance the common good.
Community values:
Faithfulness
By God’s grace, we remain committed to the same Christian faith embraced by the College’s founders
and to seek, teach, and apply biblical truth in all that we do. While we continuously adapt our efforts in
relation to the realities and challenges of this world, we serve a God who is the same yesterday, today,
and tomorrow.
Excellence
In everything we do, from classrooms to residence halls, from performance stages to sports venues, we
are devoted wholeheartedly to the highest standards of excellence. “…[D]o all to the glory of God” (1
Cor. 10:31).
Community
We foster life-long community engagement through a dynamic and welcoming campus experience
marked by fellowship, service, hospitality, and abiding respect for others as God’s image-bearers.
Stewardship
We honor the financial support and commitment of families, alumni, and friends of the College by
managing our resources wisely, especially in maintaining affordability and the beauty of the campus, as
we secure the long-term sustainability of the College.
Independence
In pursuit of our mission, we value and safeguard our institutional autonomy as a blessing of America’s
heritage of freedom.

4

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Student Responsibilities
Welcome Letters
Purpose and Identity
Mission, Vision and Values
Table of Contents

1
2
3
4
5

Academic Life*
Academic Integrity
Grade Appeals Procedure
Class Absence Policy

6-10
6
8
9

Community Life
12-31
Community Standards
12
Anonymous Reporting Portal
17
Non-Disciplinary Policy
17
Student Conduct
17
Student Conduct Hearing
18
Appeal Process
19
Explanation of Disciplinary Sanctions
20
Expectations for Student Athletes
22
Expectations for Campus Organizations
22
Drug and Alcohol Policy Further Explained 23
Sexual Harassment, Assault, and Violence
Further Explained
25
General Campus Policies
31
Campus Offices and Departments
Academic Resource Center
Academic Advising
Disability Services
Registrar’s Office
Bookstore
Campus Events

37-99
37
37
37
38
39
39

Campus Safety
Career Services Office
Christian Formation Office
Counseling Services
Financial Aid
Food Service
Global Programs and Study Abroad
Health and Wellness
Information Technology Services
Library
Mail Room
Media Services
Operations Department
Print Production Services
Residence Life
Residential Living
Openings, Closing, and Summer Housing
Residence Life Standards, expectations,
and Services
Colonial Hall Apartment Life
Group Housing
Student Accounts: Billing and Payments
Student Employment
Student Engagement
Student Government Association
Student Life and Learning Office
Commuter Life
Airport Shuttle
Student Payroll
Student Recreation
Writing Center

40
46
47
49
49
52
52
54
55
60
60
61
61
62
62
63
67
71
82
84
85
91
92
94
95
96
96
97
98
99

Appendix A: State and Federal Laws
Appendix B: Emergency Preparedness

100-102
103-113

You are encouraged to use the find function to search
this document topically through the use of key words

* Please see the 2024-2025 The Bulletin for
additional information concerning academic life

5

ACADEMIC LIFE
Please see the 2024-2025 Bulletin for information concerning academic policies, services and
expectations. Students are responsible to know and comply with the contents of The Bulletin, particularly
the sections which relate to their major and general academic requirements.
Information found in The Bulletin is not typically duplicated in The Crimson. However, the centrality of
academic integrity to the Grove City College community, and to educational excellence, cannot be
overstated. For this reason, the College’s Academic Integrity Policy can be found in both documents and
should be adhered to strictly. Violation of this policy is not consistent with the Community Standards of
Grove City College and will be addressed accordingly. For your convenience, the College’s grade appeals
procedure and class absence policies are also included below.
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
Grove City College is deeply invested in upholding academic integrity and honesty. Three of the college’s
five core values, faithfulness, excellence, and community, directly relate to academic integrity because
any violation of academic integrity is a form of theft and deceit that affects the one stolen from, as well as
the community of students and faculty at the college. In addition, cheating is a violation of three of the
Ten Commandments: the prohibitions against stealing, lying, and coveting. However, as the Ten
Commandments and the totality of Scripture demonstrate to us, we are fallen creatures who at times do
what we ought not do.
Accordingly, the college has created a policy both to define what cheating is and to describe our process
for dealing with allegations of cheating in order to discourage cheating and provide an opportunity for
meaningful repentance and restoration when students do cheat.
Pledge
As a student of Grove City College, I pledge to do my work faithfully with honesty in accordance with
my calling as a student working for Christ’s glory.
Cheating and Plagiarism may be present in many areas, including (but not limited to) the
following:
1. Doing Papers, Outside Work. Work done out of class, which a student submits as his/her own
work to a professor, should be his/her own and should not contain that which has been obtained
from another, other than properly credited references, sources, and citations.
2. Taking Exams, Tests, Quizzes. Work done on a test, exam, or quiz, which a student submits to a
professor, should be his/her own and should not contain that which has been knowingly obtained
from another. By default, no resources are permitted unless explicitly allowed by the instructor.
3. Preparing for Exams. A student should not seek to gain an advantage on an exam he/she is about
to take by obtaining advanced access to particular questions or advance copies of a professor's
exam, or by giving access to other students. This includes access to exams from prior semesters.
4. Group Work. In courses where group work or teamwork is allowed, the members of the group
may collaborate and share resources among themselves, but not with other groups or prior and
subsequent classes.
5. A student should not cooperate with, aid, or encourage another student’s violation of the above
rules, even though he or she receives no direct benefit. Any student who does so is also guilty of
cheating and can have their grade from current or past semesters (if relevant) reduced.
6. Instructor-Imposed Limitations. Faculty may add (via syllabus, assignment instructions, or verbal
instructions) additional rules and limitations pertaining to cheating in their particular discipline,
class, and assignment.

6

Special Note: Plagiarism includes
1. Any direct quotation of another’s words, from simple phrasing to longer passages, without using
quotation marks and properly citing the source of those words.
2. Any summary or paraphrase of another’s ideas without properly citing the source of those ideas.
3. Any information that is not common knowledge—including facts, statistics, graphics, drawings—
without proper citation of sources.
4. Any cutting and pasting of verbal or graphic materials from another source and representing as
one’s own work—including books, databases, web sites, journals, newspapers, etc.—without the
proper citation for each of the sources of those materials; this includes any copyrighted artwork,
graphics, or photography downloaded from the Internet without proper citation.
5. Any wholesale “borrowing,” theft, or purchasing of another’s work and presenting it as one’s
own, whether from the Internet or from another source.
6. Any presentation of “ghost-written” work including—whether paid for or not—as one’s own
original work, including papers, computer code, visual artwork, and other forms of written and
non-written work.
7. Making one’s work available for copying by others, as well as copying work posted on the
Internet or otherwise made available by another.
8. Self-citation: you cannot submit the same work for two different classes. If you use part of an
earlier work, or ideas from an earlier work, you should reference it, as with any other source.
The Process: How the Academic Integrity Policy Works
Reporting a violation
1. If a student, staff, faculty, or administrator believes he or she observed a violation of the
Academic Integrity Policy, he or she must fill out an online report of the violation via MyGCC,
which is sent both to the professor of that course and the Chair of the Student-Faculty Review
Committee (SFRC). This report should be filed within two class days of discovering the alleged
violation.
2. The professor of the course may then meet with the student(s) who allegedly committed the
violation. If the report was submitted by someone other than the professor, the professor may also
meet separately with that person.
1. If the professor determines no violation has occurred, he or she will submit a resolution to
the Chair of the SFRC and the matter will be dropped.
2. If the professor believes the policy has been violated, he or she will submit a resolution to
the Chair with a proposed sanction (which must be at least a failing grade on the
assignment and can include up to failure in the course, depending on the severity of the
incident).
3. The SFRC Chair will then contact via e-mail the student(s) who have allegedly violated the
policy and inform them of the professor’s proposed sanction and of their right to either accept the
charge and sanction or challenge it. The student(s) must respond to the SFRC Chair within three
class days, or the student(s) accept the penalty by default.
a. If the student(s) accept the charge, the Chair will present the case to the SFRC Committee,
which issues the penalty. The SFRC Committee may alter the recommended sanction. The
Provost’s Office will record the sanction.
b. If the student(s) reject the charge, the Chair will schedule a contested hearing, where the
SFRC will hear from all involved parties and make a determination on the case. The SFRC
Committee may alter the recommended sanction. The standard of evidence for the committee
is “the preponderance of the evidence.”
Note on the SFRC Committee: The committee is made up of approximately 20 students, annually
elected to one-year terms, and 30 faculty, who are elected to two-year terms. The SFRC Chair selects five

7

students and five faculty from that pool to address each case. Decisions require a supermajority of 70% of
the votes.
a. The SFRC chair will inform the students of the SFRC decision within two class days.
b. After a contested hearing, either party may appeal, via e-mail, the Committee’s decision to
the Dean of the school in which the alleged violation occurred within two class
days. Students may not appeal the SFRC sanction if they accepted the charge of violating
academic integrity.
c. The Dean will meet with the student(s), faculty member, and SFRC chair (separately) before
ruling. The Dean’s decision is final.
d. Once the final decision has been rendered and any appeal is exhausted the sanction will be
applied and the Provost’s Office will record the sanction.
e. If the student(s) has been involved in two or more violations of the Honesty in Learning
policy, the Provost may apply additional sanctions up to and including academic dismissal.
The SFRC Chair will make a concerted effort to conclude the whole process for each case within 30 class
days (not counting appeals) but cannot guarantee this timeline. In addition, on occasion allegations of
violations of academic integrity come up at the end of the semester, when it is not possible for the
committee to meet. In those instances, the committee will resolve the case at the beginning of the next
academic semester, or in the case of a graduating student, with a reduced committee. There is no statute
of limitations on cheating.
GRADE APPEALS PROCEDURE
1. A student accused of violating the Academic Integrity Policy or who claims that a course’s final
grade was determined unfairly may appeal. The student may withdraw his/her appeal at any point.
If an appeal is upheld at any point in the process, the Grade Appeals Committee, as outlined in
Section IV below, determines the new grade. The professor against whom the appeal is upheld
may appeal to the Provost.
2. Appeal of a course grade - Notice of intent to appeal must be sent to the professor awarding the
grade no later than 30 days after the end of the semester. The grade appeal process then must be
initiated within the first twelve class days of the following semester and follow the procedure
described in Part III.
3. The appeal process must follow the procedure outlined below. At each step in the process, the
decision-making body or the person appealing must lodge an appeal to the next level within six
class days.
a. The student must discuss the matter privately with the professor.
b. If no satisfactory resolution is reached, the student should appeal in writing to the Chair
of the Department in which the course is offered.
c. If the appeal is denied by the Department Chair, the student may appeal in writing to the
Dean of the respective school (Arts and Letters or Science, Engineering, and
Mathematics) in which the course is offered.
d. If a satisfactory resolution still has not occurred, the student may appeal in writing to the
Provost.
4. If the Provost determines that the appeal is not frivolous, the Provost may call a meeting of the
Grade Appeals Committee.
a. Chaired by the Provost, the Grade Appeals Committee consists of two students (the
Student Government Association President and Vice President of Academic Affairs); the
Dean and the Assistant Dean of the Alva J. Calderwood School of Arts and Letters; the
Dean and the Assistant Dean of the Albert A. Hopeman, Jr. School of Science,
Engineering, and Mathematics; the Registrar; two appointed faculty representatives; and
six elected faculty representatives (one each from the six major subject areas of the

8

College). The elected faculty representatives are chosen by the department members of
their respective areas. In the event an elected faculty representative is unable to attend or
the appeal involves a committee member who earlier has been a point of appeal in this
process, the Provost will appoint an alternate from the appropriate subject area.
The major subject areas of the college are:
1) Business (Accounting, Economics, Entrepreneurship, Finance,
2)
3)
4)
5)

Management, and Marketing)

Engineering, Mathematics, and Computer Science
Education
Exercise Science
Humanities (English, Communication & Visual Arts, Modern Languages,
Music, Biblical and Religious Studies, and Philosophy)
6) Natural Sciences (Biology, Chemistry, and Physics)
7) Nursing
8) Social Sciences (History, Political Science, Psychology, Social Work, and
Sociology)
The Vice President of Student Life and Learning, the Director of College Counseling,
and any members of the College community invited by the Provost can serve as exofficio members. Terms last for three years with no limit to the number of terms a faculty
member may serve. However, no two terms may be served consecutively.
b. The Grade Appeals Committee is responsible for recommending, by majority decision,
either to uphold or to deny the student’s appeal. The student and professor may present
evidence in writing supporting their positions. In the case of a grade appeal, the professor
must present the written grading procedure for the course under appeal.
5. If the appeal is upheld, the Provost, with advice from the Grade Appeals Committee, will appoint
a review committee of department personnel who will review the student’s work and determine a
grade. No further appeals will be permitted.
CLASS ABSENCE POLICY (illness)
It is the student’s responsibility to notify his/her course instructor in advance should he/she need to miss
class (except for in emergency situations) and to make up any course work missed. Courses are
designated either in-person or online and are prepared for one of these specific modalities. For in-person
courses, it is not the instructor’s responsibility to provide course work in an on-line modality for students
who are unable to attend.
1. Faculty should have an attendance and absence policy in their syllabi.
2. If a student is experiencing a short-term illness that prevents him or her from attending just one class,
he or she should contact the professor and visit the Zerbe Health Center if necessary. These absences
are generally addressed in course syllabi for which most courses outline a certain allotment.
3. In some cases, those who visit the Zerbe Health Center will be asked to isolate in their room due to
illness and will provide documentation indicating that the student’s absence is excused.
4. Students who are hospitalized or experience an unanticipated health event that requires them to be
absent from their courses for more than one or two days should immediately contact the Student Life
and Learning office (SLL) to secure an approved excuse (studentlife@gcc.edu). The SLL office will
contact the provost, dean and impacted faculty with a short-term plan to help the student continue in
class (See #5 below).

9

5. Faculty will work with the student to make up missed content, but this short-term solution does not
mean the course will be delivered in an online modality (including when asked by Zerbe to isolate
due to illness).
6. Students must contact their professors after securing an excused absence from the Student Life and
Learning Office. Faculty should then specify which of the following ways he/she will provide
students with course content (if the course is in-person or online). Faculty will select at least one of
the following options:
• recording lectures on LMS
• livestreaming the class on LMS
• Helping student get copies of lecture notes from a classmate
• outlining what the student needs to do to keep up with readings, homework, written assignments,
etc. (Specifying what the student must do)
• providing the student with a copy of the PowerPoint presentations as appropriate
• providing the student with a copy of the professor’s lecture notes
7. Faculty may decide to pro-rate the grades from missed lab grades, quizzes, exams, and other
assignments during the excused absence. If faculty elect to pro-rate grades from missed assignments,
he/she should communicate this decision to the student via email.
8. Students with approved excuses who have been working with SLL (see above) can only miss class for
a maximum of two consecutive weeks. After that they must withdraw from the course for the
semester. Faculty should not grant students incompletes and set expectations that students can
complete missed activities in any timeframe outside of the current semester (one exception would be
if the approved request falls inside the last two weeks of the semester).
A program standard for all students enrolled at Grove City College is the expectation they attend and
participate in their classes in person. Requesting to attend classes remotely will not be approved as this
constitutes a fundamental alteration in the College’s programmatic standards. Students are required to
meet all expectations (academic, professional, technical, and behavioral) that all other students meet. If a
student cannot attend classes designated for in-person instruction, the student is unable to remain enrolled
in the institution. Remote instruction is only allowed for those courses (or programs) designated as online.
Excused Absence for Other Reasons
Students should make every effort to attend class in parallel to one having employment and take
responsibility for attendance in a similar way, even when circumstances that are beyond their control limit
their ability to attend. In most instances the student should inform their professor of the need to miss
understanding most courses only have so many allowed absences and having no expectation the absences
will be excused. There are, however, a few exceptions in addition to health:
1. Funeral of an immediate family member - Students who experience the loss of an immediate family
member are asked to contact Student Life and Learning (SLL) at 724-458-2700 or studentlife@gcc.edu.
The SLL team will contact the provost, dean, and student’s faculty in order to convey the need for an
excused absence (typically no longer than two days). Please remember counseling services are available
along with support from the Offices of Student Life and Learning and Christian Formation. Excused
absences are only available for those attending the funeral of an immediate family member.
2. The Career Services Office (CSO) is able to provide excused absences for specific career-related
absences, including the following:
• Official interviews for post-graduate jobs and internships
• Graduate, medical, law and other professional school admissions interviews

10

•
•

•

On-campus interviews that cannot be scheduled around classes
“Approved” job fairs or events the CSO is coordinating or helping to sponsor, including the
Wester PA Collegiate Job & Internship Fair in the fall and spring, the PERC Teacher Job Fair in
the spring for Education majors, on-site employer visits, etc.
Mandatory training session(s) as part of the hiring process for an internship or job opportunity

In order to obtain an excused absence, students should complete the following steps:
1) Contact the Career Services Office Manager at career@gcc.edu, including an email from the
employer validating the time and day of the interview. This email should include the date(s) and
time(s) of the interview and account for the travel time there and back. The excuse will cover
only this length of time.
2) The student should also submit a list of the courses he/she will miss and the day of the week and
start time of the course.

PLEASE SEE THE 2024-2025 BULLETIN
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ACADEMIC LIFE

11

COMMUNITY LIFE
Membership in the Grove City College community is a privilege. Working together, members of the
College contribute toward building an atmosphere that promotes excellence in all areas of campus life.
Students are challenged to develop intellectually, spiritually, morally, socially, emotionally, physically,
and in their responsibility to the larger community and society.
They are also expected to commit themselves to upholding the Community Standards outlined below in
order to promote Christian community and further the educational mission of the College. By enrolling
in Grove City College, each student indicates his/her acceptance of the responsibilities that come with
membership in the College community.
Members of the student body have a responsibility to call to account those students who fail to abide
by the Community Standards. If the conduct of any member of the Grove City College student body
is found to be detrimental either to his/her personal development or that of others, action should be
taken in order to restore him/her to good standing in the community. In some situations, this will
require students to challenge one another with love and respect. At other times it will necessitate
bringing questionable behavior to the attention of the Student Life & Learning team.
COMMUNITY STANDARDS DEFINED
The following standards outline the behavioral expectations of the Grove City College student body and
have been adopted for the well-being of both the individual and community at large. While it is our
hope members of the student body will see the value of living by these standards, we understand some
students will occasionally choose to behave contrary to community expectations. With this in mind, the
College reserves the right to take disciplinary action against any student or student organization
(represented during the disciplinary process by the organization’s president supported by their faculty
advisor) that violates the Grove City College Community Standards. In these moments, the actions the
College takes are not meant to be an indictment on the student’s faith, but rather a means by which the
student is challenged and supported in aligning their behavior with their beliefs in a way that honors
and glorifies Jesus Christ.

Grove City College affirms the role that community plays in the flourishing of our students.
We believe that a GCC education is best experienced within the context of a Christ-centered
community that seeks to “outdo one another in showing honor” (Romans 12:10). To that end,
the Community Standards outlined below have been created to illustrate what it looks like to
honor one another and the community at large. These expectations are meant to provide the
guidelines that give life to the whole of the community. Our earnest hope is that when
followed, these standards will allow students to experience the fullness of a Grove City
College experience that is marked by academic, social, spiritual, and emotional growth. In
moments where these standards are not followed, the College has processes that afford all
alleged parties a fair and equal opportunity to present their account. The aim of the conduct
process is to challenge and support each student in grace and dignity to align their behavior
with the standards of our distinctive community. In providing this challenge and support to
students, we pray that the students involved would be further inspired to align their behavior
with Biblical principles that exalt and glorify Jesus Christ.

12

The Grove City College student body should be defined by:
Honesty and integrity - Members of the student body are expected to demonstrate a
commitment to the truth and to personal integrity. Examples of behavior which constitute a
violation of this Community Standard include, but are not limited to:
a)
Academic dishonesty including but not limited to plagiarism, cheating and/or
interfering with the academic progress of another. (See the Honesty in Learning Policy
under Academic Life.)
b)
Knowingly making a false statement, either orally or in writing, to any College
employee or agent on a College-related matter (this includes but is not limited to lying,
forgery, giving a false report, and/or falsely claiming not to have knowledge of a
specific incident).
c)
Initiation or circulation of a report or warning of an impending bombing, fire, crime,
emergency, or catastrophe that is known to be false.
d)
Using another person’s College ID card or allowing another to use one’s College ID
card in order to gain entrance to a residential facility, obtain chapel credit, access
dining privileges, or for any other unauthorized purpose.
e)
Knowingly being in the presence of a violation of the Grove City College
Community Standards by a third party or parties (e.g., failing to challenge the
behavior, leave the scene, and bring the matter to the attention of the Student Life
& Learning Team).
f)
Fleeing the scene of a policy violation after having been, or while being, confronted
by a College employee.
g)
Violation of the College’s off-campus living policy prohibiting individual
students, groups of students and/or campus-based organizations from renting,
buying, occupying, or living in off-campus residences in violation of College
policy.

1.

2.

Civility and respect - Members of the student body are expected to treat others with respect,
conducting themselves in ways that promote the physical and emotional well-being of others
and demonstrating respect for students, faculty, staff, administration and others in their
respective roles and responsibilities. Examples of behavior which constitute a violation of this
Community Standard include, but are not limited to:
a)
Communicating by voice, graphic means, electronically, telephone (whether speaking
directly to the person or through voice or text message) or using any other information
resource that has the effect of harassing and/or alarming another person (intentionally
or unintentionally).
b)
Any unauthorized use of electronics or other devices to make an audio, pictorial, or
video record of any person without his/her prior knowledge, or without his/her
effective and continual consent when such a recording or picture is intended or likely
to cause injury or distress. Note: In order to ensure safety, the College does utilize
cameras in certain public spaces. When necessary and available, footage from these
cameras may be used for investigative purposes.
c)
The creation, dissemination, or possession of misleading, pornographic, and/or
inappropriate AI-generated images of another person.
d)
Threatening or actual bodily harm, stalking, harassment, unwelcome bodily contact,
and/or the projection of a real or perceived danger to any person.
e)
Sexual harassment, defined as any unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, including
sexual violence, unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, obscene
comments, gestures, or expressions; taking liberty with another person’s body; or
propositions associated with promises or threats regarding classroom or

13

f)

g)
h)

i)
j)
k)

l)
m)

3.

employment status. Sexual harassment is further defined in the section “A Further
Explanation on Response to Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, and Sexual
Violence” later in the Community Life section.
Engaging in sexual contact or behavior with another person without the consent of
that person or by compulsion through physical force or fear. Sexual contact or
behavior includes, but is not limited to, sexual intercourse, touching the sexual or
other intimate parts of another person, inappropriate disrobing, or any other physical
contact or touching of a sexual nature. Consent is defined as a freely given agreement
by a competent person. A person is deemed incapable of giving consent when that
person does not fully understand the nature of the consent and/or is not competent to
give consent (e.g., due to the student’s age, or use of drugs or alcohol, or because of
an intellectual or other disability that prevents the student from having the capacity to
give consent). A further explanation of consent is found in the section labelled “A
further Explanation on Response to Sexual Harassment, Sexual Assault, and Sexual
Violence” later in the Community Life section.
Violating Pennsylvania law and/or College policy concerning hazing (See Appendix A).
Intentional or reckless interference with standard College activities and functions.
Examples of such activities/functions include but are not limited to studying, teaching,
public speaking, research, administration of the College, or emergency (Campus
Safety, fire, or police) operations.
Abuse (verbal, psychological, and/or physical) or mistreatment of a Resident Assistant,
Resident Director, or other College official during the fulfillment of his/her job
responsibilities and/or in retaliation for fulfilling those responsibilities.
Abuse (verbal, psychological, and/or physical) or mistreatment of a student who has
reported what they believed to be a potential violation of the College’s policy and/or
retaliation or a threat of retaliation toward this student.
The use of language or symbols that, in the view of the College, demean the inherent
dignity of another individual. Language and symbols that denigrate race, sexual
orientation, or religion are some examples that are incongruent with the College’s
mission of being a Christ-centered living and learning community.
Intentionally obstructing or failing to comply with the request of a College official or
employee in the lawful performance of his/her duties.
Failure to abide by any disciplinary sanction imposed as a result of a student conduct
hearing (e.g., failure to honor a monetary fine, fulfill a behavioral sanction or satisfy
terms of probation).

A commitment to Christian community - Members of the student body are expected to
behave in a manner consistent with the College’s desire to provide an authentically
Christian environment. Examples of behavior which constitute a violation of this
Community Standard include, but are not limited to:
a)
Failure to abide by residence hall open hours and/or procedures (see Residence Life for
details).
b)
Unauthorized taking, use, or possession of another’s property or services (including the
College).
c)
Sexual misconduct including premarital sex (heterosexual or homosexual) or any
other such conduct that violates historic Christian standards or promotes sexual
intimacy between unmarried persons (including disrobing).
d)
Cohabitation, including an overnight stay - either partial or full - or longer, with a
romantic partner, or any individual of the opposite gender, in a student’s
residence.

14

e)
f)

g)
h)

i)

Possession, sale, distribution, participation in, production of or use of
pornographic material including but not limited to magazines, posters, videos,
DVDs, photographs and/or computer-generated images.
Intentional or reckless behavior which may, or in fact does, deface or cause damage
to College property or the property of others. Note: students who are found to be in
violation of this community standard will be charged the full amount of restitution
(this includes but is not limited to parts, College labor, contractor labor, service fees,
etc.). The student(s) may also receive a fine, pending the specifics of the incident.
Violation of any rule(s) listed in the Campus Computing System Policy section of this
handbook (See Information Technology Services) including the sending of mass
emails.
Gambling - bidding or waging money for the purpose of monetary gain - on campus,
at a College-sponsored event, or online through the College network. Please note:
recognized clubs and/or organizations may not conduct raffles or raffle type giveaways
involving the exchange of money.
Improper and/or unauthorized use of the College’s brand (name, logo, etc.).

4.

Wisdom concerning drug and alcohol usage - Members of the student body are expected to
abide by state and federal laws concerning the use of alcohol and drugs and to make wise
decisions concerning the legal consumption of alcohol. Examples of behavior which constitute
a violation of this Community Standard include, but are not limited to:
a)
Possession, storage, consumption, furnishing, or selling of alcoholic beverages while
under the jurisdiction of the College (i.e., on College property, at a Collegesponsored event, or on a College-sponsored trip).
b)
Possession or use of alcohol by persons under 21 years of age in violation of state
drinking laws. Contributing to the delinquency of a minor, including but not limited to,
furnishing, sale, or the facilitation of underage drinking.
c)
Creating an on-campus disturbance as a result of off-campus consumption/oncampus public intoxication.
d)
Use of organizational funds for the purchase of alcohol by any officially recognized
student organization.
e)
The possession, distribution and/or consumption of alcohol at any function of an
officially recognized student organization (please refer to “Expectations for Campus
Organizations” for more details).
f)
Possession, production, distribution, use, or sale of illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia.
g)
The inappropriate use, sale, or distribution of prescription drugs or legal substances
to experience psychological alteration (including Delta 8, whip-its, etc.). Students are
also not to be in possession of prescription medication that is not prescribed to them.

5.

Safety mindedness - Members of the student body are expected to aid in the establishment of a
safe and secure campus environment. As a result, students are to refrain from behavior that may
pose a risk to others and/or to self. Examples of behavior which constitute a violation of this
Community Standard include, but are not limited to:
a)
Violation of regulations, policies, or provisions in the Residence Life Section of this
handbook, including but not limited to the possession of candles, incense, empty
alcohol containers or pets other than fish.
b)
Tampering with fire safety equipment, setting off a false alarm, blocking exit pathways
and/or failing to evacuate a facility during a fire drill or emergency evacuation.
c)
Possession, sale, or use of fireworks or any other explosive or combustible material

15

d)
e)
f)

g)
h)
i)
j)
k)

6.

on College property or in the surrounding community.
Disorderly, inappropriate, and/or obscene behavior on College property or at College
supervised or sponsored events.
Use or possession of a firearm, ammunition, or other dangerous weapon on campus.
Knives with a blade longer than 4 inches (approximately the width of the user’s hand),
and/or fake or spent ammunition are also prohibited on campus.
The use of Airsoft, pellet, BB and paintball guns, get blasters, balloon launchers and/or
any other recreational projectile device on campus. Additionally, the possession of
Airsoft, replica, and/or lookalike weapons is prohibited on campus because of the
potential for them to be mistaken for actual weapons.
Unauthorized possession, duplication, or use of keys, codes, or ID cards to
facilitate the unauthorized entry to or use of College facilities.
Scaling, climbing, or repelling off a College building and/or unauthorized presence on
the roof of a College facility.
Unauthorized access to, entry, attempted entry, or use of a College facility (including
the IM fields when not in use after dark and fenced construction zones at any time) or
another person’s room, vehicle, or private property.
Reckless driving, which may, or in fact does, endanger individuals or damage property.
From time-to-time, the College is forced to implement additional safety measures
in order to protect the campus community. In those instances, students are
expected to comply with all measures the College sets forth.

Good citizenship - Members of the student body are to conduct themselves in a manner
which will positively represent themselves and the College. Students are expected to abide
by all local, state, and/or federal laws and to publicly uphold the values and mission of Grove
City College. Examples of behavior which constitute a violation of this Community Standard
include, but are not limited to:
a)
Violation of local, state, or federal laws including but not limited to drug use, underage
drinking, disorderly conduct, trespassing, and public disturbances. No criminal
conviction is necessary for conduct to be subject to disciplinary action by the College,
and disciplinary actions may proceed even though the same conduct is the subject of a
pending criminal charge.
b)
Behavior which may reflect poorly on Grove City College, its mission, and its values.

NOTES:
• Although logins are often required on sites such as Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), Tik Tok,
Instagram, Snap Chat, and YouTube– communications on these sites are public and open; they
are not confidential or private in any way. Communications on such sites are not monitored by
the College. However, as with information available in other public arenas, information found
on internet sites is admissible as evidence in student conduct proceedings. Examples of this
information include but are not limited to wall postings, journal entries, blog postings, photos,
comments, tweets, text messages, instant messages, and other openly accessible
communication. This information may, if brought to the College’s attention, also be considered
in other situations where student conduct is a relevant factor.
• The Vice President of Student Life & Learning and other College officials are given
discretion in addressing violations that are not specifically listed here or elsewhere in this
handbook.
• Specific sanctions for violation of the drug, alcohol policies are listed at the end of this section.

16

ANONYMOUS REPORTING PORTAL
The College offers an online portal for students to submit concerns to the Office of Student Life and
Learning anonymously. The portal is found on MyGCC. The intent of this portal is to ensure that students
have a means by which they can report genuine concerns for themselves or others. Knowingly submitting
a false report is a misuse of the system and a violation of Community Standards. Students are also
welcome to speak with a member of the Student Life and Learning team regarding their concerns.
STUDENT REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE - NON-DISCIPLINARY POLICY
Students who struggle with issues including but not limited to sexual relationships, pregnancy, eating
disorders, same sex attraction and/or the use of alcohol, drugs, or pornography are encouraged to seek
support and assistance from the Student Life & Learning team regardless of whether the involved
behavior violates the Community Standards. Those taking the initiative to seek help, prior to the
behavior being reported to or identified by College personnel, will not be subject to disciplinary action
for past behavior, where applicable.
Although the College, through the Student Life & Learning Office, desires to assist students in
overcoming the above struggles using all appropriate means available, students who are not held
accountable for past behaviors must demonstrate a good faith effort to change those behaviors. Those
failing to do so may be subject to disciplinary procedures for future comparable actions in those cases
where the conduct is outlined as a violation of the Community Standards.
Students should be aware the College may take appropriate action in cases where behavior is
repetitive, self-destructive, and/or hazardous to others or involves legal concerns (e.g., harassment,
sexual assault, etc.). The College also reserves the right to require the student to enter into a
professional counseling setting if it is believed to be warranted.
STUDENT CONDUCT
The following sections outline the normal policies and procedures that guide the student conduct
practices of the Student Life & Learning Office. It is important to note that, as a private educational
institution, the College is not constrained by many of the legal restrictions that governmental entities
(including state-owned colleges and universities) are bound to follow.
Whenever individual students violate College regulations or assist other students to violate them, the
College has the right and obligation to respond with sanctions up to and including dismissal. In some
instances, the College may be required or choose to involve local authorities. Similarly, whenever
campus-based organizations violate College policies or individual members help cause others to violate
them, the College has the right and obligation to respond with disciplinary action against the organization
and/or the officers of the organization.
Sanctions may include the loss of group recognition by the College (formerly referred to as the ‘loss of
the group’s charter”) and/or the sanctioning or dismissal of individual members. In all student conduct
matters, determination of responsibility is based on the preponderance of evidence standard (i.e., what is
more likely than not to have happened?).
Redemptive Discipline
The following goals have been established to guide the Student Life & Learning team in its oversight of
the student conduct process:
• To educate students regarding the value of Christian community, the need for Community
Standards and the student’s responsibilities.
• To inspire change in the student’s behavior in order to help him/her develop a solid character.

17

•
•

To use the disciplinary process as an opportunity to minister to the student, as behavior
is often a symptom of a deeper struggle.
To work intentionally with the student and his/her community to bring reconciliation
and restored acceptance.

Student Conduct Process Oversight
The Vice President of Student Life & Learning is responsible for the overall function of the student
conduct process. However, day-to-day operations are overseen by the Associate Dean of Student Life
(hereafter referred to as the Associate Dean) who may either address the conduct directly or assign it to
another member of the Student Life & Learning team.
STUDENT CONDUCT HEARING
Upon receiving a report of an alleged violation of the Community Standards the Associate Dean or the
Director of Student Care (hereafter referred to as DSC) will initiate the disciplinary process by contacting
the identified student(s) or assigning the case to another College employee who will serve as the hearing
officer and subsequently contact the identified student(s), usually through campus email. Students will
normally receive a text message on their cell phones informing them that an email has been sent to them. The
email and text message will appear as being sent by Maxient, the software system the College uses in its
student conduct proceedings. Each student will be informed of the offense(s) he/she is alleged to have
committed and asked to promptly schedule an individual appointment with their hearing officer. Each
student may bring a silent support person with them to their meeting with the hearing officer. To avoid
the perception of an imbalanced process, the silent support person must be a current member of the Grove
City College community (student or employee) who is not related, or providing legal guidance, to the
student(s) alleged to have violated the College policy. During this meeting the hearing officer will explain
the student conduct process, share the allegations made against the student, and let him/her share his/her
version of events. After this discussion and any subsequent investigation, the hearing officer will determine
whether it is more likely than not the student violated College policy (preponderance of evidence standard).
Note: This decision will be made without input from the student should he/she fail to meet with the hearing
officer and/or fail to demonstrate an effort to (re) schedule an appointment.
Once a decision has been made the hearing officer will again meet with the student. During this meeting
the student will receive a Conduct Violation Assessment Form (CVAF) informing him/ her of the
hearing officer’s decision and, where applicable, the student’s disciplinary sanctions. The sanctions
issued will depend on the circumstances and severity of the offense as well as the student’s conduct
record. At this meeting, the student will need to be prepared to sign the CVAF and indicate either
acceptance of the sanctions or a desire to appeal, The student’s decision to accept or appeal will be
considered final after signing the CVAF and the student will not be able to change their decision after
this point. A phone call will be made and/or an official notification will be mailed to parents when a
decision is made to suspend or dismiss a student.
Please note the College reserves the right to issue immediate suspension or dismissal subject to the review
of the Administrative Council and/or the President of the College, and to take appropriate disciplinary
action where the safety of life, property, or reputation of the College or its members is at stake. A student
charged with a misdemeanor, or a more serious criminal charge, may be issued a summary suspension by
the Vice President for Student Life & Learning subject to review by the Administrative Council.
Misconduct that occurs at the end of a semester may result in a student’s sanctions being carried over to the
following semester. This includes, but is not limited to, suspension during all or part of the following
semester or the denial of re-enrollment. Those that occur over the summer will be adjudicated at the
beginning of the fall semester using the same process outlined above. Violations by seniors during the last
few weeks of the academic year will not be disregarded. Infractions up until the time of Commencement
could result in failure to graduate and/or participate in baccalaureate, commencement, or other graduation-

18

related events.
APPEAL PROCESS
Initiation
A student may appeal the results of his/her case to the Appeals Board for Student Conduct (AB) if one
or more of the following scenarios applies to their case:
A.
He/she can submit additional evidence, not available at the time of the original
hearing, that would support his/her claim that he/she did not violate the Community
Standards and, thus, may materially influence the outcome of the case.
B.
The sanctions imposed are too severe for the disciplinary violation. Evidence to
substantiate such claims would include, but not be limited to, historical precedence of
sanctions that have been imposed for the same or similar violations.
C.
The failure of the Hearing Officer (and by extension, the Office of Student Life and
Learning) to follow the appropriate steps of the Student Conduct Process as outlined in
The Crimson materially affecting the outcome of the case.
D.
In order to appeal he/she must:
1) indicate a desire to do so when completing the Conduct Violation Assessment
Form,
2) submit a written rationale to the AB Chair within 48 hours of his/her initial
indication of appeal (signing of the CVAF). If the Chair determines the
student has grounds for an appeal, the Chair will meet with him/her to further
discuss the appeal process. If the Chair determines grounds for appeal are not
present, then the decision reached by Student Life and Learning is final, and
the sanctions issued will immediately go into effect. The AB Chair will
review the rationale for appeal and will determine whether the case will or
will not be accepted for review by the full AB.
Please note: incidents involving the use or possession of illegal drugs are not appealable, and
requests for appeals received after study day of any semester may not be able to be considered until
the following semester.
Appeals Board
The Appeals Board is chaired by a faculty member and is comprised of five (5) additional members of the
faculty and five (5) students, who will serve on the board for the entire academic year. The Appeals Board
consists of the Chair, at least one member from the Hopeman School, at least one member from the
Calderwood School, one member from the Business School, a representative from the Athletic Department, the
SGA Executive President, the SGA Executive Vice President for Student Affairs, a representative of Inter
Fraternity Council, a representative of Pan Hellenic Council, and a representative from the Association of
Women Students.
Upon receiving the written appeal, and within 5 workdays or as soon as possible thereafter, the Appeals
Board will meet with the appealing student/organization and any necessary parties for the purpose of
gaining additional and relevant information in considering the appeal. A quorum (minimum number of
Board members who must be present for the proceedings to be valid) of the chair, three faculty members,
and three student representatives must be on hand in order for the Board to consider an appeal, and at
least 2/3 of the members present must vote in favor of the Board’s decision before it will be considered
final. The written decision of the Appeals Board may be to sustain or dismiss the decision of the Office
of Student Life & Learning. If the Appeals Board sustains the decision of the Office of Student Life &
Learning, it may also decrease or increase the sanctions. The Appeals Boards decision will be final and
will be communicated in writing to both the appellate and the Student Life and Learning team.

19

Note: During the appeal process, the student may continue to attend classes and/or live on campus
unless the student’s presence on campus is considered a health or safety hazard to the student, the
campus population, College property, or for any other reason deemed to be in the best interest of the
College. The student must leave campus immediately after a final decision is made in cases where the
suspension is upheld.
Student Records
Student conduct case files are maintained by the Office of Student Life and Learning for a period of
seven years and prior findings may serve as a factor in subsequent disciplinary decisions. While
accumulation of violations during a student’s College career may result in a student’s dismissal from the
College, it should be noted that some offenses may result in dismissal regardless of the number of
previous infractions.
EXPLANATION OF DISCIPLINARY SANCTIONS
One or more of the following sanctions may be given in response to the violation of the Grove City
College Community Standards:
Fines - Monetary fines will be applied directly to the student’s account.
Restitution - Payment equal to replacement or repair costs, including labor, for damages or stolen
property, or for reimbursement of other losses, such as medical bills or investigative labor.
Restrictions and conditions of student behavior - Examples include, but are not limited to, denial of
open hour privileges, denial of the use of specific College facilities and services, and restrictions from
participation in extracurricular activities.
Referral for counseling - Students may be required to establish a counseling relationship with a
member of the College counseling staff or another counseling professional and be required to sign a
waiver giving the counselor permission to acknowledge the student’s attendance.
Mentorship – A student may be required to meet with a mentor as a result of violating college policy.
The purpose of these meetings is to provide an opportunity for the student to engage with, and learn
from, a non-peer individual in order to process what they might learn from their experience. Students
may be assigned a mentor by the Office of Student Life and Learning or ask to identify one
themselves.
Alcohol evaluation/education - A student who violates alcohol regulations may be required to attend
alcohol education and/or submit to an alcohol evaluation at the student’s own expense. Based on the
results of the evaluation, the student may be required, at his or her own expense, to successfully
complete a prescribed program of education, intervention, and/or counseling approved by the College.
Developmental/educational assignments - Examples include but are not limited to: developing and
presenting residence hall programs on behavioral or health-related issues; writing a paper on topical
concerns; and/or attending College lectures/seminars on issues relevant to one’s disciplinary case.
Service to the community - Students or organizations may be required to serve the College or local
community for a specified number of hours over an assigned period of time.
No Contact Agreement - The College reserves the right to issue a “No Contact Agreement” between
two or more students in response to alleged contact that is deemed disruptive, harmful, or inappropriate
based on the Community Standards outlined in the previous pages. (Note: If the College deems

20

necessary, additional action may be taken in order to further ensure no contact occurs between parties)
Warning - Issued with the intention of causing the student to consider their behavior and implement
necessary changes in the future.
Social probation - A student or an organization given this sanction is not eligible to represent Grove
City College in any official capacity. An individual or the members of an organization may not
participate in extracurricular activities except those of an academic or religious nature or when the Vice
President for Student Life & Learning has granted individual permission. When a group is involved, the
group’s recognition (formerly referred to as “charter”) may be suspended and housing privileges may be
denied for the next academic year or beyond.
Disciplinary notice - Written notification to the student indicating any further violation of the
Community Standards during the specified period of time will result in an increase in disciplinary
sanction. This increase may result in the student being dismissed from the College community, pending
the nature of the specific violation(s) and the student’s overall disciplinary record at the College.
Dean’s Probation - The student is permitted to remain enrolled in the College only upon condition that
he/she complies with all College rules and regulations and/or with other standards of conduct which the
student is directed to observe for the duration of the probation. Failure to meet these conditions will
result in the student being dismissed from the College community. When a group is involved, the
group’s recognition (formerly referred to as their “charter”) may be suspended and housing privileges
may be denied for the next academic year or beyond (see Expectation for Campus Organizations for
details).
Temporary Suspension - The College reserves the right to temporarily suspend a student after an
incident has occurred or been reported (whether or not official charges have been filed), if, in the
judgment of the Student Life & Learning team, the student’s continued presence on campus would
constitute potential harm to College property, the student him/herself, or to the safety of any member of
the College community. During the entire duration of a temporary suspension, a student is not to attend
class or College functions, participate in College-sponsored events, whether on or off campus, and/or be
on College property, unless having been given advanced approval by the Associate Dean of Student Life
or Conduct Officer (i.e., to attend a conduct hearing).
Disciplinary Suspension - The student will temporarily lose his/her student status for a specified period
of time, with resultant loss of all student rights and privileges. During the entire duration of a
disciplinary suspension, the student is not to attend class, College functions, whether on or off campus,
and/or to be on College property. Normally the student must vacate the campus to return home no later
than 24 hours after the sanction has been levied. By vote of the faculty, students are not permitted to
make up missed academic work prior to, during or after the stated period of suspension. In cases of
indefinite suspension, which will include the immediate end to the student’s current semester and the
loss of all rights and privileges associated with being a student, re-enrollment will be contingent upon
completion of the suspension, the fulfillment of its terms, and approval from the College. Those
returning from an indefinite suspension will do so under a probationary status.
On-Campus Disciplinary Suspension- Removal of non-academic involvement for a designated period of
time. The student is to remain in his/her room between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. without visitors for a
specified number of days. Only a roommate(s) or College employee will be permitted in the room during
this period. Please note that this has the effect of closing the room or apartment to the privilege of open
hours for all occupants.

21

Disciplinary Dismissal - The student will be permanently separated from the College and lose all
student rights and privileges. A Dismissed student must leave campus immediately and may not attend
College functions, participate in College-sponsored events, whether on or off campus, and/or be on
College property. No provision will be made for re-enrollment, nor return visits to campus.
Organizational Sanctions - Sanctions may include fines, restitution, developmental/educational
assignments, community service, and/or restrictions imposed independent of or in combination with
warnings or probation. The College may also determine that the organization will lose its recognition
as an official College organization, and the privileges associated with recognition, for a specified
period of time. Any organization suspended for violating College regulations, if reinstated, may lose
its recognition permanently if further violations occur.

EXPECTATIONS FOR STUDENT ATHLETES

Varsity student athletes are expected to uphold all Community Standards and behave in a manner
consistent with the College’s mission and values. Therefore, at the request of the Athletic Director,
anytime an athlete is charged with a violation of the Community Standards, the Athletic Director and
the student’s coach(es) will be notified. The Athletic Director and respective coach(es) reserve the right
to add additional athletic-specific sanctions. These sanctions include, but are not limited to removal
from the athletic team, suspension from practice(s) and/or game(s), etc.

EXPECTATIONS FOR CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS

Permission for an organization to exist rests solely with the College. All organizations at Grove City
College are expected to uphold the Community Standards and members are to behave in a manner
consistent with the College’s mission and values.
Advisors are encouraged to attend all meetings and social functions sponsored by the group, and
organizations are encouraged to hold all activities on campus. Organizations that sponsor off-campus
functions must assume complete responsibility for the actions of their members and guests.
All group functions are to comply with local, state, and federal laws, to adhere to College standards and
to reflect positively on the mission and values of the College. The possession and/or consumption of
alcohol at an organization’s function is not permitted. Those attending, regardless of age, are also not
permitted to possess, distribute, or consume alcohol at the group’s function. Moreover, the consumption
or mere presence of alcohol and/or illegal drugs at or in proximity to and attendant to a group’s function
(e.g., parking lots, hotel rooms) may constitute a violation of the policy. Immoral behavior or its
appearance is also prohibited. Such behavior at group functions shall include but is not limited to
members of the opposite sex sharing the same bedroom, and inappropriate conduct may be subject to
group and/or individual sanctions.
A group function is defined as: Any effort on the part of any group member(s) to plan or organize a
function or activity involving other members of the Grove City College recognized club or
organization. Thus, phone calls, text messages, chats, flyers, face-to-face and electronic communication
(including other social media) will be construed as planning toward a group function.
If individual students or groups of students or campus-based organizations rent, buy, occupy, or live in
off-campus residences in the contravention of College policy, or if they participate in or organize offcampus events which contravene College policy, the College may impose appropriate sanctions.
The violation of College policy by a campus organization will be dealt with in the same manner as a
violation of the Community Standards involving an individual student. Individual members of an

22

organization can receive sanctions in addition to a group sanction for a group violation. The Student Life
& Learning Office will be responsible for dealing administratively with all violations and for issuing
sanctions as appropriate. The accused organization, when found guilty, has the right to appeal the
decision of the Student Life & Learning Office to the Appeals Board for Student Conduct. Appeals must
be made by the officers and must be written and submitted to the Appeals Board within 48 hours.
The recognition (formerly referred to as “charter”) of any College-sponsored group or organization
which, at any of its gatherings on or off campus, violates or permits the violation of any applicable law or
of College rules and standards, including those related to illegal drugs, alcohol, hazing or immoral
behavior, may be suspended as follows:
• For the first violation: Recognition suspended for a year.
• For a second violation within a four-year period: Recognition suspended for two years.
• For a third violation within a six-year period (following a second violation within four
years): Recognition will be suspended indefinitely.
Once recognition has been suspended, a period of six years without a violation must elapse before the
cycle of increasing sanctions is reset to zero. Recognition (a suspended charter) may be reinstated by the
successful completion of a procedure administered by the Office of Student Life & Learning. The
printed procedure is available in that office.

FURTHER EXPLANATION: DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY AND
RESPONSE

The use, possession or distribution of alcohol, illegal drugs or other agents having potential for
psychic alteration (unless authorized by a physician) is prohibited on campus.

Drug policy and sanctions
Students found in possession of, using, producing, or selling illegal drugs will be suspended indefinitely
and without the opportunity to appeal the decision. Paraphernalia for the use, production, and/or storage
of illegal drugs is also prohibited on campus. Note: because College personnel are not legally authorized
to possess illegal substances, the College will notify local authorities when illegal substances are
discovered on campus. The College also reserves the right to refer for prosecution by federal, state, and
local authorities any person who violates the federal, state, or local law prohibiting the possession, use,
production, or sale of illegal drugs.
Alcohol policy
On-campus possession and/or consumption of alcohol and/or public or private intoxication is prohibited.
Off campus possession and/or consumption of alcohol is also prohibited for those under the age of 21.
Students will be held responsible for any alcohol found in their rooms, automobiles, or personal
belongings. Furthermore, any student in a College-owned room or apartment where alcohol is present
may also be charged with possession of alcohol. Students will be presumed to have consumed on
campus when open or empty containers are present, and consumption is confirmed.
When College personnel reasonably suspect a student of consuming or possessing alcohol on campus
and/or when a student is believed to be publicly intoxicated on campus, the student may be required to
take a breath analyzer test. This test will determine consumption (thus providing the student with an
opportunity to demonstrate non-use) and help direct the College’s response. In some circumstances this
response will include the decision to have the student transported to and evaluated by the AHN Grove
City at the student’s expense. Only Campus Safety personnel who have been trained in the procedures
for and use of the testing device will conduct the test. Refusal to take or successfully complete the test

23

will be considered an admission of guilt. It may not be possible for a breath analyzer to be administered
in all cases. This does not preclude the College from taking disciplinary action. In conjunction with
Pennsylvania State Laws, the smell of alcohol on a person is sufficient cause to charge that person with
a violation of consumption of alcohol. Additionally, in conjunction with these same laws, possession of
an alcoholic beverage in one’s hand is sufficient cause to charge the person with possession.
Alcohol Emergency Immunity
We implore students who become aware of someone in need of assistance following alcohol or drug
use to act quickly to follow “Kylee’s Code:” call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 (when on campus)
and 911 (when not) immediately and follow the directions provided. Those who take this courageous
step should do so with every confidence that the College will respond in accordance with the amnesty
law outlined below. Please read the summary of this law, as caring well for another in this way could
save a life!
The state of Pennsylvania alcohol emergency amnesty law (“Good Samaritan” law) provides
“immunity from prosecution for a person under the age of 21 for the possession or consumption of
alcoholic beverages if law enforcement, including campus safety police, became aware of the
possession or consumption solely because the individual was seeking medical assistance for someone
else. The person seeking the assistance must reasonably believe he or she is the first to call for
assistance, must use his/her own name with authorities, and must stay with the individual needing
medical assistance until help arrives.”
Hosting an event
Any individual hosting and/or organizing an activity held on or off campus at which alcohol
consumption occurs (either by students of legal age or those under legal age) will be suspended or
dismissed. Those responsible for buying or distributing alcohol for consumption by individuals will
also be suspended for an indefinite period of time.
Drinking and driving on campus
Any student found drinking and driving while on College property may be turned over to area Law
Enforcement for further investigation and possible prosecution. This action will in no way limit the
College from taking disciplinary action. Furthermore, no criminal conviction is necessary for conduct
to be subject to disciplinary action by the College, and the disciplinary process may proceed even
though the conduct is the subject of pending criminal charges. Parents or legal guardians may also be
contacted.
Sanctions
Any student found guilty of violating College regulations concerning the possession and/or consumption
of alcohol, including private or public intoxication, will be subject to the following sanctions:
• Underage possession or consumption (on or off-campus):
o First offense = One week suspension, alcohol education and one-year disciplinary notice
(and $100 fine if on campus)
o Second Offense = Indefinite suspension and required participation in an alcohol
education program before consideration will be given to the student’s return
• On-campus possession:
o First offense = $100 fine, alcohol education and one-year disciplinary notice
o Second offense = One week suspension and one year Dean’s probation
o Third offense = Indefinite suspension and required participation in an alcohol
education program before consideration will be given to the student’s return

24

•

•

•
•

Of age on-campus consumption:
o First offense = $150 fine, alcohol education and one-year disciplinary notice
o Second offense = One week suspension and one year Dean’s probation
o Third offense = Indefinite suspension and required participation in an alcohol
education program before consideration will be given to the student’s return
Creating on-campus disturbance as a result of off-campus consumption/oncampus public intoxication:
o First offense = $100 fine, alcohol education and one-year disciplinary notice
o Second offense = One week suspension and one year Dean’s probation
o Third offense = Indefinite suspension and required participation in an alcohol
education program before consideration will be given to the student’s return
Providing alcohol to persons under the legal drinking age of 21:
o First offense = One week suspension and one-year disciplinary notice
o Second offense = Indefinite suspension
Hosting and/or organizing a party (on or off campus) where alcohol is
consumed (of age or underage)
o First offense = Indefinite suspension
o Second offense = Permanent dismissal

Notes:
1. Violations of the College’s alcohol policy will be considered cumulative regardless of the specific
infraction.
2. All indefinite suspensions will be served off campus. Students are not permitted to be on College
property or attend any College functions or events on or off campus during the timeframe of their
suspension.
3. As determined by the College’s faculty, during the timeframe of a suspension, students are not
permitted to make up or turn in any academic work due during that time (i.e., tests, papers, quizzes,
presentations, labs, etc.). Absences from classes will be considered unexcused.
4. Parents will be notified by phone and/or mail anytime a decision is made to suspend or dismiss a
student.

FURTHER EXPLANATION: SEXUAL HARASSMENT, VIOLENCE, AND
ASSAULT AWARENESS & RESPONSE
Grove City College expressly prohibits any and all forms of sexual harassment, sexual violence, and
sexual assault. This section defines the behaviors associated with each of terms, provides instructions on
what to do if you are a survivor of one or more of these prohibited acts, and outlines the College’s
response to allegations of such banned behaviors.
Sexual Harassment Defined
Any unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature, including sexual violence, unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature…includes
pressure for sexual favors; obscene comments, gestures or expressions; taking liberty with the person of
another; or propositions associated with promises or threats regarding classroom or employment status.
Sexual harassment can occur between any members of the College community. It is defined as
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature when:
1) Submission to such conduct is made explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual’s employment or status in a course, program, or activity;

25

2) Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as a basis for an employment or educational
decision affecting an individual; or
3) Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work
or educational performance or of creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive living, learning or
working environment.
Sexual Violence Defined
Sexual Violence is defined as physical sexual acts perpetrated against a person’s will or when a person is
incapable of giving consent (for example, due to the student’s age or use of drugs or alcohol, or because
an intellectual or other disability prevents the student from having the capacity to give consent). A
number of different acts fall into the category of sexual violence, including rape, sexual assault, sexual
battery, sexual abuse, and sexual coercion. Sexual violence can be carried out by school employees,
fellow students, students from other schools, or third parties. Sexual violence is a form of sexual
harassment.
Sexual Assault Defined
Any sexual act including rape, sodomy, sexual assault with an object, or *fondling directed against
another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of
giving consent; also unlawful sexual intercourse (FBI, 2018)
*A note on Fondling/Forced Kissing
Fondling is defined as a non-consensual and purposeful touch of a sexual organ of the body of another
person. Forced kissing is a nonconsensual and forceful kiss of another individual.
Stalking Defined
Stalking is generally defined as a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a
reasonable person to fear for the safety of themselves or others, or to suffer substantial emotional distress.
A course of conduct is considered persistent and/or continuous attempts on the part of an individual to
make contact of any kind with an individual who has shown no intent to reciprocate the attention.
Dating Violence Defined
Dating violence refers to violence committed by a person who is or has been in a romantic or intimate
relationship with a victim and the nature of the relationship has been determined by its duration, type, and
frequency of interaction. Violence is deem as any action that threatens or actually causes physical or
emotional harm to a person of their property.
Consent Defined
Affirmative consent is a knowing, voluntary, and mutual decision among all participants to engage in
sexual activity. Consent can be given by words or actions, as long as those words or actions create clear
permission regarding willingness to engage in the sexual activity. Silence or lack of resistance, in and of
itself, does not inherently demonstrate consent. The definition of consent does not vary based upon a
participant's sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.
Further considerations of consent of which members of the campus community must be aware are:
• Consent to any sexual act or prior consensual sexual activity between or with any party does not
necessarily constitute consent to any other sexual act.
• Consent may be initially given but withdrawn at any time.
• Consent cannot be given when it is the result of any coercion, intimidation, force, or threat of
harm.
• When consent is withdrawn or can no longer be given, sexual activity must stop.

26

•
•
•
•
•

Consent cannot be given when a person is incapacitated, which occurs when an individual lacks
the ability (“capacity”) to knowingly choose to participate in sexual activity.
Incapacitation may be caused by the lack of consciousness or being asleep, being involuntarily
restrained, or if an individual otherwise cannot consent.
Depending on the degree of intoxication, someone who is under the influence of alcohol, drugs,
or other intoxicants may be incapacitated and therefore unable to consent.
A minor cannot give consent.
A person’s physical or mental disability may prevent the person from having the capacity to give
consent.

What To Do If You Are The Survivor of Stalking, Dating Violence, Sexual Harassment, Violence,
or Assault
What follows in this section are steps that we encourage all survivors of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or sexual violence. We view these acts as being counter to everything for which the College
stands. As such, the College strives to support survivors through all possible means. If you are a survivor
of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or violence, please know what was done to you is not your fault, nor
were you complicit in what happened to you in any way. To the extent possible, we would encourage you
to:
1) Focus on getting to a safe place away from your perpetrator.
2) Call someone you trust: e.g., friend, Resident Director, Resident Assistant, member of the SLL team,
Nurse, Counselor, Chaplain, or a member of the Campus Ministry team to support you.
Please consider entering these numbers in your phone.
Campus Safety
Residence Director (RD) On Call
Director of Student Care
-Cell
Associate Dean of Student Life
-Cell
Campus Counseling Center (Daytime Only)
On-Call Counselor
College Nurse ((Daytime Only)
-Cell
Vice President of SLL
-Cell

724-458-3000
724-967-2120
724-458-2197
724-967-2631
724-264-4684
724-967-3683
724-458-3788
724-458-3000
724-458-3850
724-967-1466
724-458-3348
724-967-1767

3) Seek medical attention as soon after the incident as possible. The staff at the local emergency room is
trained to provide a survivor of sexual violence with optimum physical and emotional care and they are
required by law to maintain strict confidentiality.
A trained counselor from the local community rape crisis center, AWARE [1-888-981-1457], is another
resource available to you should you desire someone who is available and willing to accompany you to a
medical examination. The counselor is available to sit with you while you talk to the police and/or may
serve as an excellent source of information. Please know the staff at the local emergency room and
AWARE counselor are there to provide comfort and support, they will NOT pressure you in any way!

27

4) Preserve as much evidence as possible, as physical evidence may be important should you later decide
to file a report with the police.
• Do not change clothes;
• Do not shower, bathe or douche;
• Do not apply medication to any injuries you may have sustained unless absolutely necessary;
• Do not disturb anything at the location where the assault occurred, if in an area where you
have control over the environment.
Note: Evidence of any kind is unable to be used by local authorities without a report from the survivor.
Preserving the evidence still allows the survivor to determine what steps they want to take in the
aftermath of the alleged incident.
5) Students are encouraged to file a formal complaint in either the Grove City College Student Life and
Learning or Campus Safety Office. Grove City College fully supports students and employees who are
survivors of sexual violence in seeking criminal prosecution with local law enforcement agencies.
6) Sexual violence or harassment, regardless of the relationship of the offender to the survivor, can cause
a variety of emotional symptoms. Getting counseling or emotional support is strongly recommended and
is available 24/7. Please consider seeking support from:
• Grove City College’s Counseling Center: to schedule an appointment with one of our counselors
please dial 724-458-3788. In a crisis situation you can speak directly to the counselor on call by
dialing Campus Safety at 724-458-3000, providing your phone number, and requesting that the
counselor on-call contact you. Campus Safety will not inquire as to the reason for the request to
contact the counselor on-call.
• As mentioned in Point 3 above, Mercer County AWARE (1-888-981-1457) provides free
counseling and support for those impacted by sexual violence. This resource is available to
students at any point in time.
• National Sexual Assault Hotline (1-800-656-4673)
For additional information and resources, please refer to the two brochures you received via College
email during the first week of the fall semester.
Procedures for Resolving Allegations of Sexual Harassment, Violence & Assault
Student Reporting Options
If a student believes she/he has experienced an act of sexual harassment, violence, or assault perpetrated
by a fellow student of Grove City College, she/he may proceed in any one of the following ways:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Report the act(s) to local authorities and to the Office of Student Life and Learning
Report the act(s) to local authorities alone.
Report the act(s) to Student Life and Learning alone
Choose not to report at this time.

The College is committed to a sensitive and fair handling of allegations of sexual harassment, sexual
assault, and/or sexual violence. Healing, safety (of the survivor and others), and justice are the College’s
primary concerns. To that end, the College endeavors to investigate claims thoroughly and expediently,
without sacrificing one for the sake of the other. A student will not be rushed to make a decision about
reporting the behavior perpetrated against them. In so far as it is possible, time will be afforded to the
affected student to determine how she/he would like to proceed. While a student may report acts of sexual
harassment, sexual violence, or sexual assault to any member of the College community, it is
recommended that she/he report directly to Student Life and Learning or Campus Safety due to the

28

training these staff members have in survivor support and investigative tactics. All College investigations
of sexual harassment, sexual violence, or sexual assault alleged to have been committed by a current
student will be led by Student Life and Learning (process outlined below). If the alleged perpetrator is not
a member of the Grove City College community, the College will endeavor to support the affected
student and provide resources and support as she/he determines their desired course of action. Grove City
College fully supports students who are survivors of sexual harassment, violence, or assault in seeking
criminal prosecution with local law enforcement agencies.
College Investigations
In the event a student brings an allegation of sexual harassment, sexual violence, or sexual assault to the
attention of the College and requests an investigation, the reporting student will meet with the Director of
Student Care who will take the student’s statement. This meeting is meant to ensure all details of the
responding student’s account are appropriately catalogued, and to determine if additional steps are
necessary to ensure safety while the College investigates the allegations brought forth. A reporting
student will not be disciplined for behaviors that may have violated the College’s Community Standards
leading up to or during the reported assault (i.e., sexual misconduct, alcohol, drugs, etc.). A reporting
student may bring a silent support person with them to this meeting. To avoid the perception of an
imbalanced process, the silent support person must be a current member of the Grove City College
community (student or employee) who is not related, or providing legal guidance, to the reporting or
responding student.
If the allegation is being made against an employee of the College, and the student desires the College to
investigate, the reporting student’s statement will be shared with the College’s Office of Human
Resources (HR), who will coordinate the investigation. A member of the Student Life and Learning team
is available to accompany the reporting student to any meeting they have with HR.
If the allegation of sexual harassment, sexual violence, or sexual assault is being made against another
Grove City College student, the Director of Student Care will coordinate with the Associate Dean of
Student Life to issue a charge of a violation of College policy/policies prohibiting sexual harassment,
assault, or violence to the responding student – the individual against whom the allegation has been made.
Upon receiving this charge, the responding student will meet with the Director of Student Care and
Associate Dean (hereafter referred to as “the investigators”) to provide his/her statement. This meeting is
meant to ensure that the responding student has had the opportunity to provide his/her account and the
details have been accurately catalogued. A responding student may bring a silent support person with
them to this meeting. To avoid the perception of an imbalanced process, the silent support person must be
a current member of the Grove City College community (student or employee) who is not related, or
providing legal guidance, to the reporting or responding student.
In addition to the accounts of the reporting and responding students, the investigation will include
accounts from additional sources, which may include but are not limited to, interviews with other persons
with knowledge of the facts and events surrounding the claim. Interviews conducted during the
investigation may be recorded. Additional materials that may be pertinent to the investigation may also be
requested by the investigators.
During the investigation, each party will be given a fair and full opportunity to present their respective
position and may submit any written statement or additional evidence on their own behalf. When the
investigation has reached its conclusion, the investigators will meet with the reporting student and the
responding student individually to share the results of the investigation. The reporting and responding
students each may bring a silent support person (current student or employee of the College who is not
related or providing legal guidance) to their respective meetings. In the meeting with the responding

29

student, the investigators will provide the responding student with a conduct violation assessment form
(CVAF) which will outline the decision reached in the case.
In investigations of sexual harassment, assault, or violence, like that of any other potential policy
violation, the decision reached will either be “responsible” (i.e. evidence to substantiate that a violation of
College policy was more than likely to have occurred was found in the course of the investigation) or “not
responsible” (i.e. evidence to substantiate that a violation of College policy was more than likely to have
occurred was not found during the investigation). It should be noted that the decisions reached in these
investigations are made solely based on the evidence that is available to the investigators throughout the
course of the investigation.
Retaliation is Forbidden
Grove City College forbids retaliation against anyone for making an inquiry, lodging a complaint in good
faith, or otherwise participating in and/or cooperating with an investigation regarding alleged sexual
harassment, sexual violence, or sexual assault. As a means of preventing even the perception of
retaliation, the College will issue a no contact agreement between the reporting and responding student
during the course of the investigation.
Potential Accommodations and Safety Precautions
Incidents of sexual violence, alleged or actual, may warrant a change in living arrangements and/or class
schedule for the student(s) involved. Students can request a change or have an advocate petition the
appropriate office on their behalf. Requests for housing and/or class schedule changes should be funneled
through Director of Student Care or Associate Dean of Student Life.
What To Do if You Are Supporting a Survivor of Stalking, Dating Violence, Sexual Harassment,
Assault, or Violence
Students who find themselves supporting a survivor of stalking, dating violence, sexual harassment,
assault, or violence, should be sure to remain calm. It is vitally important to remind the survivor, and to be
reminded ourselves, that healing takes time. Walking with the survivor through this healing process is a
tremendous act of grace and compassion. Hearing about acts of perpetration may invoke many emotions,
but the best way to support the survivor is to listen and believe the account they are sharing. Let the
survivor express their feelings, maintain their confidence (by not sharing their personal information with
others), and keep from making assumptions about the situation or anything related to it. Encourage the
survivor to seek medical attention and to utilize support systems like counseling. Student supporting
survivors should also compassionately encourage the survivor to report the harassment, assault, or other
act of violence to local authorities and the College. In encouraging the survivor to seek medical attention
and/or report, it is vital to ensure that the survivor remains in control of the situation. The act perpetrated
against them took away their power of choice, it must be restored when determining next steps. If the
survivor is willing to seek medical attention and/or report the act to College and/or local authorities, those
walking alongside in support should offer to accompany them. Finally, students who are supporting
survivors should remember their own wellness and seek the appropriate supports to make sure they
remain well.

30

GENERAL CAMPUS POLICIES
Animals: Wild or Unknown Domestic
Students should not feed or approach wild or unknown domestic animals on or around campus as rabies
have been reported in the Grove City area in the past. Given the severity of this disease, we ask that all
members of the campus community take steps to safeguard themselves and others by strictly adhering to
the following guidelines.
1.
Do not feed or approach any wild or unknown domestic animals (raccoons, skunks and
feral cats are the leading carriers of rabies, but the disease can also affect many other
animal species).
2.
Contact Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 immediately if you see any animal behaving
unusually.
Campus Grounds and Recreational Usage
Campus lawn areas may be used for casual play (e.g., Frisbee, baseball, football) using non-cleated shoes.
• For safety reasons, golf is not to be played on College property and students are asked to avoid
Frisbee use in moderate to heavily used locations.
• Students are encouraged to use the intramural playing fields for recreational purposes.
• Teams and large groups are required to use the intramural playing fields or other approved fields.
• Where evidence exist that casual play is causing damage to the lawns, students may be asked not
to use those areas for a period of time in order to restore the lawns.
In an effort to limit personal injury and damage to campus trees, students should not climb on trees.
Hammocks are permitted on campus as long as hammock tree straps are used.
The Quad can be used for casual recreation with the following guidelines and restrictions:
• Casual play or recreation is defined as individual or small group activities that do not inflict
foreseeable damage to the grass and/or ground. Examples include but are not limited to:
o Tossing a frisbee, football, or baseball.
o Picnicking, sitting, or studying on the grass.
• Where evidence exists that such casual play is causing damage to lawns or where particularly wet
or dry weather has damaged the grass, students may be asked NOT to use the Quad for a period
of time so that the lawn can be restored.
• The following activities are not permitted on either half of the Quad at any time:
o Pick-up, club sport or intramural athletic competitions (please use the IM fields instead)
o Activities involving cleated shoes
o Golf
o Batting baseballs, softballs, tennis balls
o Sunbathing
o Any other activity (individual or group) that has strong potential for damaging the Quad
in anyway
Confidential Information Policy
Grove City College maintains a number of records containing information about students and employees.
The College respects and recognizes the need for privacy for its students and employees for much of this
information, while at the same time respects and recognizes the need and desire for information by the
parents of its students, and the need for College employees to have reasonable access to confidential
information in order to do their jobs in an efficient and effective manner. In order to address these
concerns, the College has established a Confidential Information Policy. In summary, the policy provides
that:

31

•
•
•

•
•
•

•

Data related to students and employees will be made available to any College employee who has
a need to know that information in order to accomplish his/her job responsibilities.
At the discretion of the College, all data regarding a specific student will be made available, upon
request, to that student and to the student’s parents or guardians upon verification that the person
is who he/she claims to be.
Students with a valid reason may request that information be withheld from disclosure to
individuals other than College employees. Such request must be in writing, include the rationale
for the request and be provided to the College office that maintains the identified information. If
the request is considered appropriate, College employees will make every reasonable effort to
comply with the student’s request.
College employees have the right to provide selected student or employee information to external
parties under certain conditions.
Students’ medical and counseling records shall only be released at the written request of the
student, except as provided by our health provider’s professional ethics and state and federal
laws.
If in the professional judgment of the Counseling Services staff, a student is believed to be a
danger to self or others, the Counseling Services staff reserves the right to contact appropriate
college employees (e.g., Vice President of Student Life, Associate Dean of Student Life, Director
of Student Care, Director of Residence Life, a Residence Director, Director of Health and
Wellness) to ensure students’ safety while in the process of making appropriate treatment
interventions.
The College will provide any and all information required by law. Because it does not participate
in Federal programs or receive Federal funding (direct or indirect), Grove City College is not
subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), and this policy is not
intended to comply with FERPA.

Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment
It is the policy of Grove City College to foster a living, learning and working environment in which all
faculty, staff, administrators, and students can enjoy equal opportunities in their employment and
educational relationships with the College without regard to their race, color, national origin, ethnicity,
gender, age, religion, disability, or other criteria protected by applicable law. Likewise, Grove City
College forbids harassment of or by any member of the College community because of an individual’s
race, color, national origin, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, disability or other criteria protected by law.
This type of harassment is referred to as discriminatory harassment. Grove City College also prohibits all
forms of sexual harassment, as described earlier under the College’s Sexual Harassment Policy. The
authorization of, cover-up, or participation in any unlawfully discriminatory act or act of discriminatory
harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. Failure to abide by this policy shall be cause for disciplinary
action up to and including termination of employment or, in the case of a student expulsion from the
College.
Drones
Due to privacy and safety concerns, recreational use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV’s) – commonly
known as drones - is not permitted in any location on Grove City College’s campus. The College’s full
UAV policy can be obtained from the College’s risk manager, but the concerns noted above prohibit
exceptions.
Grove City College Identity (Brand and Logo) Usage Policy
Use of all or part of the College logo shown below is prohibited without the express consent of the
Communications Office.

32

Film: Public Viewing and Copyright
Officially recognized Grove City College student organizations may sponsor films that foster intellectual,
emotional, spiritual, or artistic growth and/or provide entertainment. The Director of Student Engagement
must approve all films that student organizations want to sponsor and show on campus. Approval of a
film must be granted prior to placing an order with a film company or announcing a showing. The Office
of Student Life & Learning maintains guidelines around engagement with popular culture that guide the
selection of films shown on campus. The artistic merit, cultural significance, truth communicated, and
context in which the film will be screened are considered equally in the film approval process. The
values, perspective, and lifestyle portrayed in a film as well as the film’s rating are important elements in
consideration of the context in which the film will be shown.
Films with excessive gratuitous violence, profanity, obscene language, nudity, or sexually exploitative
material will generally not be permitted for sponsorship by a student organization. Films with potentially
offensive content may be approved for campus viewing if: 1) the film has redeeming social value and
intentional programming encourages discussion of the potentially offensive elements or 2) an edited
version of the film is available and obtained and advertising informs the community that the film being
shown is an edited version.
The U.S. Copyright Act places significant restrictions on the public use of recordings (rented or owned).
No videos or DVDs are to be shown on campus to public audiences generally unless the proper license
has been secured to do so.
Legally obtained movies may be shown in common meeting areas in the residence hall, floor lounges and
private rooms since that area constitutes a student’s living area, provided that the movie showing is not
advertised outside the building and no admission fee is charged. Attendance should be limited to students
who live on that floor, in the building, or are personal guests of those students. No public notices of any
kind are allowed.
In addition, movie watching among friends should not infringe upon the rights of others.
Fog Machines
Fog machines are prohibited from student use on campus due to the likelihood of triggering College’s fire
detection alarming systems.
Housing Requirement
Grove City College is a residential college, requiring all full-time students to live in campus housing and
participate in the College’s board plan with the exception of those commuting from the permanent home address of a
parent or primary non-peer relative (grandparent, aunt, or uncle) living within a 40-mile radius of the College.
Non-residential students must complete the Commuter Address Confirmation form annually to verify their
commuting address and affirm compliance with this policy. No full-time student may rent, occupy or live in
unauthorized off-campus housing during the fall and spring semesters. Those found to be living in a
residence other than the one approved by the College will be charged with a violation of the community
standards and subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including suspension. More commonly, the
student will be required to move into assigned campus housing and charged the full semester’s room and
board.
Outdoor Fireplaces and Firepits
Student groups and organizations can schedule use of outdoor firepits through the College’s Event
Coordinator (see Campus Events). Please email firepit@gcc.edu or use Astra (by clicking Event Planning
on the Campus Services tab of MyGCC).

33

•
•

The wood burning firepit on Lower Campus is for both event and group usage. Please take note
of the expectations outlined on the reservation page and be sure to follow them.
The two gas fireplaces located on Lincoln patio are for event use only. The policies for governing
the wood burning firepit are currently under development but will likely mirror those of the
firepit on lower campus. All three fireplaces must remain on the Lincoln patio at all times.

Users are responsible for lighting, containing, and extinguishing their own fire.
Please note portable fire pits are not to be used on campus, and permission for organizations to host a
bonfire should be requested through the Student Engagement Office well in advance of the function.
Overnight Safety
Students, and others, should not sleep in College lobbies, lounges or other common spaces. Sleeping
outside, tenting and camping on College grounds or in College parking lots is also not permitted.
Construction of and/or sleeping in igloos or enclosed snow caves is also prohibited for safety reasons.
Photographs of College and Campus events attended by Alumni and the Public
Visitors to campus and attendees at Grove City College-hosted events should be aware that Grove City
College and its representative(s) photograph College events (both on and off campus) that are attended by
the public, students, parents of students, faculty, staff and/or alumni. These photographs are sometimes
used for promotion of the College and may include but are not limited to photographs, videotapes,
electronic reproductions, web and social media or audiotapes of campus and College activities.
If you would prefer that an image of you not be used, we ask that you remove yourself from instances
where there is a photographer and/or videographer present. Otherwise, the College cannot guarantee that
your likeness will not be used.
Sign/Poster Hanging Requirements
Anyone wishing to hang signs/advertisements on campus, whether members of the College or larger
community, must first receive approval from the Office of Student Life & Learning (located on the 2nd
floor of the Breen Student Union) prior to posting materials in College facilities. Approved items will be
stamped with both the date of approval and a date through which the item should remain posted. Signage
without a stamp will be removed. Note: Those making multiple copies of an advertisement may bring the
original to be stamped before duplicating or submit the piece to Print Services electronically (leaving
space for it to be stamped electronically). In an effort to preserve the wood, glass and paint surfaces of the
College’s buildings, all publicity hung in College facilities must comply with the policies established for
each particular building. This includes using masking or painter’s tape to hang signs. Scotch and duct tape
are prohibited in order to limit damage.
Skateboards, Scooters and Similar Conveyances
Over the years, the College has experienced repeated property damage and several personal injury
accidents involving both students and non-students on skateboards. Because of these incidents and
recognizing that the campus grounds are not designed for skateboarding, these and similar boards (“rip
stiks,” wave boards, long boards, etc.) are not permitted to be used on campus.
Human powered scooters designed with handlebars and to be ridden while standing are permitted. It is
illegal to operate unlicensed electric and gas-powered scooters on any roadways or sidewalks in
Pennsylvania. Motorcycles, mopeds and scooters that bear valid state license plates are permitted on
campus roadways, but they must be registered with the Campus Safety Department.

34

Smoking in College Facilities
All buildings on the campus are smoke-free. The use of E-cigarettes (vaping) is prohibited indoors.
Smokers should refrain from smoking directly outside of doors and windows and may be asked to move
further away from a building at any time. Receptacles have been placed strategically and smokers must
dispose of tobacco waste appropriately.
Student Dress
All students are expected to dress in a manner consistent with the College’s Christian values. Although
the responsibility of dressing appropriately as a member of a Christian academic community is left to the
student, College personnel may determine a given mode of dress is inappropriate for a class, activity or
campus setting. Students are expected to wear clothing that adequately covers the person and to wear
shoes in all public buildings. Men are not permitted to wear hats/caps in Harbison Chapel. Individual
students or members of groups and/or College-approved organizations who wear clothing with off-color
or distasteful slogans or pictures that are contrary to College values will be addressed and may be subject
to disciplinary action.
Student Enterprise (Student-Run Businesses)
Grove City College enjoys certain tax exemptions as an educational institution which can be jeopardized
when individuals in the campus community operate a business enterprise on College premises. Campusbased activity which can result in the distribution of profits to individuals is inconsistent with the
College’s tax-exempt status. Students are thus prohibited from using College facilities or services,
including residence hall rooms, campus telephone numbers, computing and/or network services or
College postal facilities, for the purpose of commercial activities. Violators are subject to disciplinary
action. Note: This policy applies to those serving as campus representatives for book buyback companies
and other, often college focused, businesses.
Student Image and Voice Usage Policy by the College
Registration as a student and attendance at or participation in Grove City College classes and other
campus and College activities (both on and off campus) constitutes an agreement by the student to the
College’s use and distribution (both now and in the future) of the student’s image or voice in
photographs, videotapes, electronic reproductions, web and social media or audiotapes of such classes and
other campus and College activities. Student name, major program of study, student activities and class
year may or may not be included in the usage of these images.
If you prefer that your image or voice not be used, it is your responsibility to fill out a form indicating
your desire to withhold permission. The Request For Exclusion (RFE) form is available on the student tab
of MyGCC and may be submitted at any time to cover subsequent usage of one’s image or voice.
Student Records
Academic and student personal records are maintained in the Registrar’s Office and in the Student Life
and Learning Office, respectively. These records are made available upon request for review by the
students to whom they pertain. They are not made available nor is information from them furnished to
third parties without the written permission of the student, except as follows:
• A student’s name and whether he or she is currently enrolled in College is considered public
information, and is included in College directories and other publications.
• The following information is considered to be of public interest and is released to appropriate
agencies unless the student officially files a request with the Registrar that disclosure is not to be
made officially without his or her written permission: academic major, dates of enrollment,
degree received, honors received, local address and telephone number, names of parents,
permanent home address, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, height and
weight of members of athletic teams.

35

•

Grove City College may communicate course progress, including grades, to high school guidance
counselors. Parents may obtain those progress reports through their high school guidance
department.

Sunbathing: Students are asked to be modest and considerate of others when choosing to sunbathe.
Women should sunbathe only in the inner quad of Mary Anderson Pew Hall, and to ensure women’s
privacy, men should not loiter in this area. Sunbathing on sidewalks is not permitted. Check with a
Residence Director if you have a question concerning an appropriate area or appropriate dress. College
personnel may determine that certain dress is inappropriate.

36

CAMPUS OFFICES AND DEPARTMENTS
ACADEMIC RESOURCE CENTER (ARC)
Location: Henry Buhl Library, Lower Level
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Website: www.gcc.edu/arc
The Academic Resource Center (ARC) provides services designed to support student learning, success,
and degree completion. The Center serves students through individual academic counseling, study skills
coaching, tutoring, providing services for students with disabilities, early intervention outreach, and
furthering students’ understanding of academic policies and requirements.
ARC staff understand that all students learn differently and want to reach success with their academic,
personal, and vocational goals. To this end, staff are dedicated to working with all students who seek
assistance from the Center.
Please visit the Academic Resource Center website for tips for academic success, information about the
tutoring program, and other services offered.
Academic Advising:
Website: www.gcc.edu/arc
Phone: 724-458-3306
Email: LeonardMK@gcc.edu
Every student at Grove City College works with a faculty advisor within their academic discipline.
Students who have entered the College as “undeclared” will be advised by the Director of Academic
Advising or Assistant Director of Academic Advising until they have selected a major.
The academic advising program helps students accomplish their academic, personal, and long-range
career goals by providing holistic guidance and support in the decision-making process. The Director and
Assistant Director of Academic Advising work with faculty advisors to help students assess and
formulate achievable academic goals. Students are strongly encouraged to build a relationship with their
advisor and should meet with him/her on a regular basis.
Disability Services:
Website: www.gcc.edu/arc
Phone: 724-264-4673
Email: DisabilityServices@gcc.edu
The Disability Services Office seeks to assist students in their college journey by providing
accommodations to ensure all students have equal access to opportunity. Any student with
a documented disability is eligible for services. The Americans with disabilities Act of 1990
(ADA) and Americans with Disabilities Act of 2008, defines a person with a disability as, "a
person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activity."
Students are responsible for disclosing their disability to the Disability Services Office. Accommodations
will be determined on a case-by-case basis by engaging in a collaborative and interactive process.

37

Services include assistance with, but are not limited to, the following disabilities:
• Learning disabilities (i.e., dyslexia, dysgraphia, dyscalculia, reading/math disability, specific
learning disability, etc.)
• Medical health (i.e., cardiac disease, diabetes, arthritis, cancer, seizure disorder, etc.)
• ADD/ADHD
• Physical/mobility (i.e., ambulatory, wheelchair)
• Hard of hearing or deaf
• Low vision or blind
• Emotional/psychological diagnosis (i.e., bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety, etc.)
• Autism spectrum disorder
• Traumatic brain injury
A student requesting accommodation for a disability is required to submit documentation of the disability
to verify eligibility under the ADA. Additional information regarding Disability Services as well as
guidance regarding documentation can be found on the GCC website. Questions can be directed to
DisabilityServices@gcc.edu.
A student with a disability remains responsible for following all college policies, including the student
code of conduct, as well as meeting academic and program requirements.
If you have questions or would like more information, please contact the Director of Disability Services at
724.264.4673 or DisabilityServices@gcc.edu. Please visit the ARC website for tips for academic success,
finding a tutor, disability services, and other essential information.
Registrar’s Office
Website: https://my.gcc.edu/ICS/Registrar/
Phone: 724-458-2172
Email: registrar@gcc.edu
The Registrar’s Office provides many services for students related to academic records. All students
should reference The Bulletin, which is the College’s official catalog of academic policies. The Bulletin
includes information about available majors, general education and major requirements, and course
descriptions.
The Registrar’s Office also provides assistance to students requesting official transcripts, certification of
full-time enrollment and degree verification, as well as determining credit transfer for AP, CLEP and IB
tests; college in the high school programs; and credit transfer from other institutions.
Course Registration
Each year the Registrar’s Office works with the College’s academic Department Chairs to create the
master schedule of courses; assists students with course registration and enrollment in internships and
other specialty programs; as well as completes degree audits to certify students for graduation.
Course registration for future semesters occurs midway through each semester. Students register for
courses online through MyGCC according to their designated class day (registration days are shown on
the academic calendar posted on the website). A student who has a balance on his/her student account or
who owes ten (6) or more chapel requirements will not be permitted to register until such time his/her
account balance is zero or the chapel requirement is met. Students may enroll, change class schedules, or
switch between audit and credit status, up until the end of the drop/add period each semester.

38

Although sufficient academic counseling is given through the advising program at Grove City College,
the responsibility for proper registration for each semester rests with the student. Each student is
ultimately responsible for planning his/her academic program in order to satisfy graduation requirements.
BOOKSTORE
Bookstore Location: Ground floor of the Breen Student Union
Hours: Monday – Friday 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m., Saturday 9:30 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
Website: bookstore.gcc.edu
Phone: 724-458-2135
The Grove City College Bookstore strives to be the only place students need to shop for all their college
needs. From course materials including textbooks, ebooks, and rentals, to classroom supplies to clothing,
health and beauty necessities, students are encouraged to stop by the Bookstore before going anywhere
else.
Purchases in the Grove City College Bookstore can be paid for by cash, check, Crimson Cash or credit
card. When you purchase with Crimson Cash, you will receive a 5% discount on all of your purchases,
including textbooks. Student account credit cannot be extended for Bookstore purchases, but it can be
deposited in your Crimson Cash account and then be used at the Bookstore.
Students can order their books on the Bookstore’s website, bookstore.gcc.edu, before classes begin and
then simply pick up their order when they return to campus. They can also wait until classes begin and
bring their schedule to the clerk service desk in the Bookstore, and our workers will gather up their books
for them. Either way, students can be sure that they have all of the right books for their classes, at prices
competitive with online retailers.
As part of the amazing value of Grove City College, the Bookstore keeps its prices reasonable, and the
dollars spent in the Bookstore are invested back into the College to help keep tuition costs down.
Extended hours will be announced for special events, such as Homecoming and Family Weekend.
CAMPUS EVENTS
Office Location: Lincoln Avenue Commons, Operations Suite, Ground Floor
Hours: Monday – Friday 7:30 a.m. - Noon, 12:30 p.m. - 4 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-2211
Email: pjpriester@gcc.edu
Web site: http://info.gcc.edu/offices/operations/eventplanning.htm
If you are requesting a room for a meeting and no College resources will be needed (tables, microphones,
parking, etc.), you may proceed to the ‘Astra Scheduling’ system with your request. The link to this
system is located on the MyGCC website. Choose the link ‘GCC Event/Meeting Request’ under Quick
Links on the left side of the page. This link will enable you to view meetings or events that are currently
scheduled on campus and will assist you in the planning of your event. You may also go directly to this
system at:
https://www.aaiscloud.com/GroveCityC/deafault.aspx
Do not log into this system, as you will be a guest. Be sure to submit your room request before leaving the
site. You should receive an email acknowledging that the Astra System has received your request.

39

Note: receipt of the request is not approval of the request.
Please allow one business day for notice of approval. Once the request has been approved, you will
receive confirmation your venue has been reserved. If further information is needed about your meeting
or event, you may be sent an email requesting further details or asking you to speak directly with the
Event Scheduling Office.
Students and organizations planning a new on-campus event must first obtain approval by completing
the campus event request form found at either web address noted above. Requests for new events should
be submitted at least 2 weeks prior to the event to be considered. This form requests a detailed
explanation of the event and the specific needs of the event. You may not schedule a venue until the event
has been approved.
There are times of the year that are more popular than other times for event scheduling. Advanced
planning is important to ensure event requests are not declined.
Please see the “Christian Formation” section regarding limitations on Sunday events. Student events and
room requests will not be approved for Study Day or beyond. Please plan accordingly to have your event
during the academic semester.
Please be aware some venues have food restrictions and special conditions for use. The event planning
office and room schedulers will communicate these conditions to you as needed.
Note: Reservations for the purposes of showing movies, even to small groups, are under the
limitations of Movie Copyright & Screening License restrictions. Please see SLL for more
information.
CAMPUS SAFETY
Office Location: Crawford Hall, Ground floor
Hours: Open 24/7
Phone: EMERGENCY: (724) 458-3000 non-emergency: (724) 458-2111
Fax: (724) 458-2979
Email: campussafety@gcc.edu (Not for emergency reporting)
The Campus Safety Department mission is to maintain a safe and secure campus environment that is
conducive to academic, social, and spiritual growth. The department is primarily responsible for ensuring
a safe and secure campus community. However, maintaining a safe community requires a cooperative
effort between Safety personnel and every member of the student body, faculty, staff, and administration.
Every individual should take responsibility for his or her own safety and should immediately report any
suspicious person or activity to the Campus Safety Department. In any community, involved and
concerned citizens are the most effective means of preventing crimes from occurring.
The campus is monitored and evaluated 24 hours a day by Safety personnel on foot, in vehicles and/or on
bicycles. The department answers the campus emergency extension at (724) 458-3000 24 hours a day and
they actively monitor fire, sprinkler, and intrusion alarm systems. Electronic card access systems secure
all residence halls and most other campus buildings. Emergency phones and CCTV cameras are located
throughout campus and in most parking lots.

40

The Safety Department provides several services to the community. Officers respond to health
emergencies or injuries, and when appropriate, will assist in arranging transportation for medical care
either at Zerbe Health and Wellness Center or AGH Grove City.
Officers can perform vehicle jumpstarts and lockouts on most vehicles. If requested, officers will also
provide a walking escort from dusk until dawn. Please call 724-458-2111 or use outdoor emergency
phones to make arrangements.
Medical Assistance
Providing transportation for students who are particularly ill or injured is one of the many public service
activities performed by the Campus Safety Department. If you have an urgent need for medical care due
to a severe illness, injury, or an accident, contact Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 for an immediate
response and assistance with the situation. While Campus Safety will respond and assist with any
emergency needs, they are not available to provide transportation for routine to preplanned appointments.
Lost and Found
All items should be turned in at the Campus Safety Office. Items of greater value, such as personal
electronics, jewelry, books, glasses, backpacks, etc., are kept in the Campus Safety Office and are
regularly cross-referenced against lost item reports so as to return items to their rightful owner. Lost
clothing or items of lesser value may be placed in the lost & found box found in the Crawford Social
Room. All unclaimed lost and found items become the property of the College two weeks after the end of
each semester and will be disposed of, sold, or donated. Any proceeds are donated to the Student
Government Association or a campus ministry.
Bicycle Registration
Please consider registering your bicycle with Campus Safety. Doing so can increase the likelihood of
being reunited with your lost or stolen property, and there’s no cost to register.
• Visit the GCC Bike Registration form found on the “Campus Safety” tab of My.gcc
• Type in your name, email, ID, mailbox, phone number, and bike make and model
• Upload a photo of your bike, and hit submit
Your GCC Bike Registration sticker and instructions on how to affix it to your bicycle will delivered via
campus mail.
Traffic and Vehicle Regulations
To ensure the safe and efficient use of campus parking and traffic facilities, all vehicle operators are
required to comply with the following regulations. These regulations are enforced 24 hrs./day 7
days/week. The privilege of maintaining a vehicle on campus is extended to all residential and commuting
students.
Freshmen Vehicles
Freshmen are permitted to have vehicles on campus, but the College strongly discourages them from
doing so. Instead, we would encourage new students to become fully invested in the campus community
and cultivate relationships with their peers. We have also found it can be beneficial to limit distractions
during the freshman year as new students acclimate to the academic rigor of college. Those who do bring
a vehicle to campus must register it as follows and park only in the designated freshmen parking
located in Lot 1 (rows G and beyond) off Madison Avenue.
Vehicle Registration
All vehicles must be registered with Campus Safety. Unregistered vehicles that are parked on campus
may be ticketed or towed at the owner’s expense at any time. Permits are available 24 hrs/day 7
days/week via the Parking Permit Application on https://MyGCC.edu.

41

Students are permitted only one vehicle on campus at any time, and permits are not transferable between
vehicles or persons. Students may not register a vehicle belonging to another student unless the second
student is a member of their immediate family. If changing primary vehicles or enrollment status
(commuter to resident), the original permit, or remnants thereof, must be returned to Campus Safety.
Upon receipt, a new permit will be issued at no charge.
Decals must be permanently affixed with their own adhesive backing to the driver’s side of the rear
bumper, or to the outer surface of the rear window in the lower left-hand corner.
Registration Fees
Full academic year: $150.00 (If purchased before January 1st)
Spring Semester: $75.00 (If purchased after January 1st)
Temporary permit: $2.00 per day/$10.00 per week. No charge for students with current registration.
Decal Replacement Fee: $150.00 ($75.00 Spring) No fee if old decal is returned.
NOTE: Registration fees and tickets will be billed to the student’s account if warnings or citations for
failure to register one’s vehicle are ignored.
Permit Refunds
If a permit is returned for a refund, the refund amount will be prorated to the date the request was
received. All refund requests received after the start of spring semester will receive a maximum of $75 to
be prorated monthly to the end of spring semester. Please note that if you turn in your permit early, and
still park on campus, you will be subject to a $75 fine for failure to register plus the cost of any violation.
If you choose to purchase another permit, you will be required to pay the lesser of either the cost for a
semester permit ($75) or the cost of a temporary permit for the time you plan to have the vehicle on
campus.
Visitor Registration
All visitors must register their vehicle. Visitor permits are available 24 hrs/day, 7days/week at the
Campus Safety Office. There is no charge for a visitor’s permit. Under no circumstances can an enrolled
student qualify as a visitor, nor will the student’s vehicle hold visitor status. Parking in a visitor space will
result in a ticket being issued for parking in a restricted area.
Parking and Parking Restrictions
Parking areas are designated by printed signs. Parking is permitted only in these designated parking areas
on campus. If a location is not designated for your class of parking permit, it is a “restricted area.”
Parking is not permitted on any roadway, sidewalk, lawn, truck delivery area or in the vicinity of a NO
PARKING or RESERVED PARKING sign, fire lane, traffic cone, barricade, or painted curb. The
aforementioned areas are TOW AWAY ZONES, and towing takes place at the owner’s expense.
The College recognizes students often have business to complete with different offices on campus. As a
result, students may park in designated visitor parking for the period needed to complete their business
with a given office provided their 4-way flashers are on. This applies only in designated “Visitor” parking
spaces (all other designated areas are limited to 15 minutes with 4-way flashers on). If other activities or
unforeseen events require special parking privileges or prevent a student from removing a vehicle from a
restricted area, contact the Safety Department immediately and explain the circumstances. Also, if
permission is requested in advance, special parking will often be approved for students assisting with
academic, cultural, or social events.
Special circumstances such as construction projects may dictate changes to published parking
designations or regulations. When this becomes necessary, temporary signs or notices will be placed to

42

notify vehicle operators of the changes. Temporary signs and traffic control devices supersede published
guidelines. Please be alert to these lot parking restrictions.
• Crawford Hall Drop-off/pickup: visitors & authorized Crawford Hall administrators only
• Colonial/Field house/Main Street lot: Colonial residents, Faculty and Staff; Other resident
students (6AM to 12AM only) *
• Memorial parking lot: Authorized employees and visitors only
• Zerbe Health Center: Emergency vehicles, RD’s and authorized staff only
• Pew North/ HAL parking lot: Faculty and Staff Parking only*
• HAL Circle: Early Education Center vehicles and staff*
• Ketler parking lot: Handicap and Resident Director parking
• Liberty Street: Student parking.
• Broad Street lot: Faculty, Staff, and Special Event parking - NO overnight parking
• North Drive Parking: Faculty and Staff parking only.
• PFAC Main Street lot: Open to student parking Sunday ONLY, from Noon-9pm; Faculty/Staff all
other times
• PLC Visitor: Campus Guests*
• PLC Lot: Faculty, Staff, Commuter and Colonial Hall Residence parking as designated by
parking signs. Please note that spaces facing Madison Ave. are signed “No Overnight Parking.” *
• Gravel lots east of Madison Ave:
o Lot 1, 2, 3 Commuters, Resident students, Colonial Hall residents & visitors*
• Carnegie Staff Parking is Reserved for authorized employees only*
o (Carnegie staff parking is open to registered CHA resident vehicles 5:30 p.m. to
Midnight, although this privilege may be suspended temporarily for special needs)
*Indicate CCTV and/or Emergency Phones present
Commuters and Colonial residents may park in any student lot. Resident students must park in
designated resident student parking. Freshmen must park in designated rows at the back of parking lot 1.
Lack of space in your preferred parking lot does not justify parking in a restricted area and will not be
accepted as justification for an appeal.
Performing maintenance on vehicles in the parking lots is strictly prohibited. If a vehicle is disabled, it
must be towed off campus for all maintenance or repair work. If fluids are spilled in the lots, the
responsible party will be billed for all cleanup costs as well as disposal of the fluids and all stone or soil
contaminated by that fluid (HazMat fees may apply).
Colonial Hall Resident Parking
There is adequate parking provided on lower campus for each Colonial Hall apartment resident. CHA
residents will be issued a parking pass specific to Colonial Hall, and are permitted to park in the lot
behind the Field House, as well as the lot situated across the street from the Cunningham House. They
will also be permitted to park in either resident student or commuter parking on upper campus.
PLEASE NOTE: To obtain zoning variances to build the Colonial Hall Apartments, the College was
required to comply with the following parking requirements for residents of Colonial Hall: “In registering
vehicles of students who will reside at the Colonial Hall Apartments, Grove City College shall require as
part of its registration policy that no such vehicle shall be parked upon any public street or in any public
parking lot within 1,000 feet of the Colonial Hall Apartments.” This restriction encompasses all the
parking belonging to Tower Church, East Main Church, Covenant OPC Church, PNC Bank and behind
Grace United Methodist Church to the north, and to Elm Street (just beyond Country Fair and including
the parking lot behind College View Towers) to the west. It also includes parking on South Broad Street

43

and College Avenue immediately adjacent to the lower campus. Do not park in the small lot beside Tower
Presbyterian Church. Accordingly, Colonial Hall residents who park in these restricted areas may be fined
and those who are repeat violators of parking in this restricted area may be subject to loss of their vehicle
privileges at Grove City College.
Motorcycles
Motorcycles must be registered, and operators are encouraged to park in designated motorcycle parking in
the PLC lot or Field house lot. A motorcycle is a vehicle, and students may not have both a car/truck and
a motorcycle. If you have a question about the placement of your permit, please contact the Campus
Safety Office at 724-458-2111.
Handicap Parking Spaces
Do not stop, stand, or park in designated handicap spaces or the adjoining van access area (designated by
hashed marks on pavement). These may only be used by holders of a state issued handicapped person
parking permit. The only valid reason to appeal a violation in one of these spaces is if you can produce a
state issued HC permit issued to the driver or owner of the vehicle.
Speed limit
15 miles per hour. Special events/weather conditions or pedestrian traffic may warrant slower travel.
Loading or Unloading
Spaces are reserved near each building for loading and unloading. There is a 15-minute time limit for
loading and unloading in these spaces, and four-way flashers must be on. If none of the designated spaces
are available, curbside stopping is permitted on the campus provided four-way flashers are on and the
vehicle is removed within 15 minutes.
Violations
Accumulating ten (10) or more parking tickets during your college career demonstrates a conscious
disregard for campus vehicle regulations. Individuals accumulating this number of tickets will be assessed
a $100.00 excessive violation fee for each subsequent ticket. Accumulating thirteen (13) or more parking
tickets may result in forfeiting the privilege of maintaining a vehicle on campus. Students may also be
referred to Student Life and Learning for further disciplinary action.
Violations in Grove City Borough
Student vehicle operators who attempt to house vehicles off campus and generate parking complaints may
be cited by Grove City Police for violation of local ordinances. Additionally, they may be billed for a
vehicle registration fee and/or be fined by the College to halt the offending behavior. This includes
Colonial Hall residents who violate the above referenced parking restriction. Repeat offenders may
permanently lose the privilege to register a vehicle on campus and may be subject to further disciplinary
action for violation of community standards as outlined in the Crimson.
Common Sanctions
• Parking in a restricted area – $20.00 (including Colonial Hall students in violation of Special
Parking Restrictions and Freshmen not parking in designated freshman rows of parking lot 1.)
• Failure to register – $75.00 + full year registration fee. Students who respond promptly (next
business day) to a violation may appeal to have the fine reduced or voided provided they can
demonstrate that they have made a reasonable effort to comply with the requirement to register.
• Failure to properly display registration – $20.00
• Parking in or blocking a construction/delivery area – $25.00.
• Blocking free access of emergency vehicles – $50.00, Towing fees or both (e.g., blocking fire
lanes, Zerbe entrance, Campus Safety spaces, etc.)

44

•
•
•
•

•

Parking on campus roadways, or drive lanes – $20.00
Moving or tampering with parking control equipment – $50.00
Moving violations – $25.00 each violation (including speeding, careless driving, or any variance
from the PA state motor vehicle safety code)
Displaying fraudulent or altered permit – $75.00+ full year registration fee Please note that
creating or altering a registration permit in order to avoid paying the registration fee or associated
fines is a serious violation that will result in the student being referred to Student Life and
Learning for disciplinary action based on a charge of theft of services. They will also be billed
for the fine ($75) and a full year registration permit ($150) in addition to any sanction issued by
Student Life and Learning. Handicap parking violation – $50.00-$200.00 (handicap parking
spaces may not be used for stopping, standing or temporary parking unless the vehicle displays a
valid state issued disabled parking permit)
Failure to yield (pull to side of roadway and stop) on approach of emergency vehicles – 50.00.

Fines
Payment is due when a ticket is issued. Tickets that remain unpaid for more than 10 days after the date of
issuance may be subject to late fees. All fines shall be paid to the Financial Services Office in Crawford
Hall. Unpaid fines will result in grades and transcripts being withheld and/or the privilege to continue at
Grove City College being denied. Unregistered vehicles that generate unpaid fines may be towed at the
owner’s expense. Towed vehicle owners will be billed for all outstanding fines and/or permit fees from
the date of the first recorded violation to the time it is towed.
Appeals
Fines must be paid promptly regardless of whether the fine is being appealed. Appealing a ticket will not
prevent or delay monthly late fees on unpaid student accounts. With that said, questions regarding late
fees should be directed to Student Accounts in Financial Services. Ticket appeals must be submitted
within 10 days of the date the ticket was issued. After 10 days, the right to appeal is lost and the violator
is responsible for all fines or costs associated with the citation. Returning the ticket with an attached note
is not a valid appeal and both will be returned to the violator. Towing costs cannot be appealed and must
be settled with the towing company.
The following procedure is the only acceptable method of appealing a ticket. All appeals must be
submitted on an official appeal form on https://my.gcc.edu/ICS. The appeal will be forwarded to the
Director of Campus Safety for a final ruling. Because each ticket is a separately billed item, one form
must be completed for each ticket being contested. Up to a $25.00 processing fee may be assessed for
frivolous appeals. No fee will be assessed if the fine is reduced or voided.
Appeals are evaluated in the context of posted/published parking regulations, reasonableness, and
mitigating circumstances offered by the appellant. Typically, appeals based upon the following or similar
situations will be categorized as frivolous appeals and will be subject to an additional fee for processing:
• Running late/did not have time to find a spot/had a test and did not want to walk
• Could not find any available parking places on campus
• Lost or never received the ticket or e-mail notification of the violation
• Only parked illegally for a short time/there were plenty of other spaces in the area
• Handicap parking violations (handicap parking spaces may not be used for stopping, standing or
temporary parking unless the vehicle displays a valid state issued disabled parking permit)
• Ignorance of the regulations
• Other violators were not ticketed/have never been ticketed there before
• Inconvenience of acceptable parking areas
• Unread or misunderstood signs

45

•
•

o Financial hardship
Could not put on flashers due to a weak battery (the poor condition of your battery is not
o an acceptable reason for not using 4-ways)
Equipment malfunction/breakdown/forgot to put 4-way flashers on*
o *Mechanical problems should be reported to Campus Safety immediately, day or night.
Appeals for citations issued to disabled vehicles will only be considered if there is
evidence the student reported the problems to Campus Safety immediately and can
produce proof repairs were made to the vehicle in question within a reasonable time
frame of the citation.

CAREER SERVICES OFFICE (CSO)
Office Location: Physical Learning Center
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Closed from Noon – 1:00 p.m.)
Website: www.gcc.edu/cso and gcc.joinhandshake.com
Phone: 724-458-3371
Email: career@gcc.edu
The Career Services Office’s (CSO) mission is to guide students in their realization and pursuit of God’s
calling for their lives. The foundation of this mission rests upon a desire for students to discover, exercise
and steward their God-given talents, interests, and abilities so that they will ultimately thrive and glorify
God in their work. A four-step career development plan, beginning freshman year, intentionally focuses
on self-assessment, career exploration, career decision-making through participation in an internship or
experiential opportunity, and the implementation of a strategic job search plan.
Beginning in the freshman year, students engage in the process of self-assessment. They can access use of
the predictive guidance platform PathwayU (https://gcc.pathwayu.com/), a web-based resource, to
evaluate their personality, interests, skills and values.
Once students have assessed their skills, values, interests, personality and potential career fields, the
sophomore year is devoted to exploring their vocational interests in greater depth. Students can find
additional resources on PathwayU as well as GCC’s Handshake platform
https://gcc.joinhandshake.com/login) which will provide further opportunity for career exploration
aligned with their assessment results, interests and major. Students at this exploration stage are
encouraged to engage in activities such as job shadowing and informational interviewing to gain insights
into different career possibilities.
By junior year, students are ideally prepared to begin narrowing down their focus and homing in specific
career decisions by researching employers and fields in greater depth and engaging in an internship
experience that will provide real-world experience and help them clarify their career interests. Finally,
senior year, students focus and engage in a strategic job or graduate search with the CSO team, faculty,
alumni, and other professional connections. The office’s four-step process of assessment, exploration,
decision and pursuit is cyclical in nature, providing students with a model by which to engage in career
preparation and planning.
At any point during the four years, CSO staff members coach students on the development of professional
skills to aid them as they pursue internships and full-time jobs, and to ultimately equip them with the
tools/skills they need to successfully manage their careers in the future. Additionally, the CSO hosts a
number of workshops and programs on topics such as resume writing, interviewing, professional
etiquette/dress, navigating a job fair, and internship & job searching, among others. Students are
encouraged to take advantage of the relationships Career Services has with employers who post jobs on

46

Handshake, come to campus to attend the annual fall Career Fair, and participate in their OnCampus/Online Interviewing Program during the fall and spring semesters. On-Campus/Online
Interviewing allows current students the opportunity to interview right here on campus or virtually for
full-time or internship opportunities and is made available to them throughout their college years until
they graduate.
The centralized CSO is located in the PLC/Alumni Hall, and Education Career Services (ECS) is housed
in the Education Suite in the Hall of Arts and Letters (HAL). In addition to the offices and interview
rooms of the centralized CSO, the facility houses a library offering various resources including event
directories, career exploration books, and specialized publications to aid students in the job or internship
search process. The office also offers students robust online career resources and guides on various topics
(resume/cover letter writing, interviewing, the job and internship search, and more) which are accessible
on Handshake and on MyGCC.
Career Services staff members are available for one-on-one counseling appointments for resume/cover
letter writing consultations, self-assessment, career exploration, mock interviews, job and internship
search strategies, general career guidance and more. Appointments can be scheduled online through
Handshake, by phone 724-458-3371, by emailing career@gcc.edu with days and times available to meet
or dropping by the office. Education majors may contact the Director of Education Career Development
at 724-458-3397 or fredericksl@gcc.edu.
CHRISTIAN FORMATION OFFICE
Office: Rathburn Hall – 1st and 2nd floors
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.- Noon and 1 p.m.– 5 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-2143
Website: www.gcc.edu/formation
Email: ChristianFormation@gcc.edu
At Grove City College, we believe Christian formation is a critical component of developing mature,
competent graduates. We envision a campus community that is grounded in Christ-centered worship,
shaping us individually and corporately. We seek to engage in whole-life discipleship, anchoring
believers to the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and equipping students to serve and minister in his name.
Together we lean toward the coming kingdom and reach out in love to our campus, to local
neighborhoods, and to the “ends of the earth”.
Christian Formation Office (CFO) Programming
A campus-wide chapel service is held on Wednesday mornings at 11 am in Harbison Chapel
(livestreamed to Crawford Auditorium) to exalt Lord Jesus. On Friday mornings at 11am opportunities
for Christian nurture take place all over campus. Students can choose to attend a Prayer Gathering in
Harbison Chapel, a campus-wide Bible Study in Sticht Lecture Hall, or any one of more than a dozen
other educator-led, 5-week, small groups designed to encourage Christian reflection and fellowship. On
many Wednesday evenings throughout the semester students gather for the Faith for Life Lecture Series
to hear a guest speaker or campus leader consider the implications of the Christian faith for life and
culture.
Chapel Attendance
Grove City College provides a chapel/convocation program to promote each student’s spiritual
formation during the student’s college educational experience. This program is comprised of diverse
services and activities, and while it is designed to encourage spiritual growth, the College understands
that, ultimately, Christian maturity is the responsibility of the individual student and not the consequence

47

of a requirement. Chapel services are the common expression of our Christian faith as members of the
campus community. Thus, chapel/convocation attendance is a core component of the student’s
experience at Grove City College. There are many chapel options available to students, and each student
is free to select from these options according to his/her own interests as long as the student meets the
following per-semester attendance requirements (fall/spring terms only):
1. Full-time students (12 or more credits) need to attend and participate in sixteen (12)
chapels.
2. Students enrolled at least half-time but less than full-time (6-11 credits) must attend eight (6)
chapels.
3. Students enrolled less than half-time (5 or fewer credits) are not required to attend chapel.
Enrollment status will be determined for each student at the conclusion of the College’s
course drop/add week.
Withdrawing from courses after that date will not affect the number of chapels owed during a semester.
A student studying abroad through an external program; enrolled in the Washington, D.C. Internship
Program; attending as a non-degree, post-baccalaureate or second degree student; or student teaching
full-time will not be required to attend chapel during the semester of that experience. Students enrolled
as an undergraduate beyond the typical four-year degree period will be required to attend chapel within
the requirements listed above. There is no additional chapel requirement for a student who graduates
early. Chapel requirements not fulfilled in a semester must be made up (this includes any unfulfilled
chapel requirements from a previous semester). A student who owes ten (10) or more unfulfilled chapels
will not be permitted to register for the next semester until such time that the requirement is met. All
grades and transcripts will be held for students who withdraw from the College who have (10) or more
unfulfilled chapels. Any student who has not fulfilled the chapel attendance requirement by his/her
graduation date will not be certified as a graduate of Grove City College until the requirement has been
satisfied. Furthermore, students owing more than six unfulfilled chapels will not be permitted to
participate in the College’s commencement ceremony. Any graduating senior who needs remedial
assistance fulfilling the chapel requirements prior to graduation will have his/her transcript and diploma
held until after June 1 of that year.
Discipleship & Ministry Opportunities
The CFO provides discipleship programs for the men and women of campus. The MENtor Project and
Deeply Rooted are programs designed to pair incoming first year male and female students with
upperclassmen to mentor them as they adjust to life on campus. Upperclassman women are also invited
to participate in Discipleship groups led by members of the local community. During their final semester
on campus, senior women are also invited to participate in a Bible study hosted at the President’s house.
The CFO also coordinates the work of ministry groups. These groups are student-led organizations that
seek to address various needs on campus, in the local community or around the world. Some groups meet
for prayer and worship, while others are service oriented. The CFO staff assists students in finding local
churches, Bible study groups, and ministry opportunities that best matches their interests and needs.
Short-term Service & Mission Opportunities
Inter-Community Outreach (ICO)
ICO’s provide opportunities for Grove City College students to actively serve local and global
communities and are open to all students. ICO trips focus on the relational aspect of ministry through
Christian service and partnership as they serve with others to glorify God and reflect the light of His love
into a world of great need. More than a dozen ICO trips occur annually, and take place over college
breaks during the fall, winter, and spring.

48

Redbox Global Outreach (GO)
The GO Program provides a short-term summer mission opportunity (6-8 weeks) and training for
students discerning a call onto the global mission field. Students can apply for a sponsorship to serve
alongside a Christian mission organization to bring the gospel of hope to the world.
Sunday Events
Grove City College encourages students to participate in local churches on Sunday morning and to
establish a church home during the student’s years in residence here. The College does not, however,
allow local churches to conduct worship services, Bible studies, or other small group activities on
campus. All invitations for guest speakers at religious events who are not members of the Grove City
College community should be approved by the Chaplain and Senior Director of Christian Formation.
Respecting Sunday as a special “day of rest” has been, and continues to be, part of the Christian tradition.
Therefore, the College avoids business as usual on Sunday particularly in terms of scheduling events and
the use of facilities. Accordingly, events are not to be scheduled on Sunday until 7:00 p.m. At that time,
ministry related groups, campus meetings, and events with limited venue requirements may be properly
scheduled.
COUNSELING SERVICES
Office Location: Zerbe Health & Wellness Center
Website: http://www.gcc.edu/counselingcenter
Hours: Monday – Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-3788
Contact Information: 724-458-3788 and counseling@gcc.edu
The College Counseling Center provides free counseling and consultation services to assist students as
they navigate the demands of college life and offers outreach opportunities that promote mental and
emotional wellness to the campus community. Stress overload, changes in mood, relationship issues and
excessive worry are common reasons students utilize the Counseling Center. Appointments may be made
by contacting Mrs. Michelle Hummel at 724-458-3788 or by emailing counseling@gcc.edu.
Appointments are scheduled between 9 a.m.-noon and 1-5 p.m. Monday through Friday. A limited
number of sessions are also available from 5:00-7:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday. In the case of an
emergency or crisis, counselors are available after hours by contacting Campus Safety at 724-458-3000.
Helpful information may also be found on our website at www.gcc.edu/counselingcenter. In accordance
with professional standards, counseling services are confidential.
FINANCIAL AID
Office Location: Ground Floor Crawford Hall
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. - Noon and 1 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Website: http://www.gcc.edu/financialaid
Phone: (724) 458-3300
Email: financialaid@gcc.edu
Financial Aid Program
The generosity of alumni and friends of the College has made the Grove City College Financial Aid
Program possible. Under the direction of the Board of Trustees, the College administration makes every
effort to keep charges as low as possible, thereby, in effect, providing every enrolled student with
significant financial assistance.

49

In addition, a number of scholarships are available to assist qualified full-time students. Scholarship
assistance is based on need and academic achievement and must be applied for each year. Although
financial assistance is awarded for the full academic year, if changes occur in the need factor, the College
may increase, reduce or withdraw assistance at the beginning of any semester.
Any student or prospective student seeking financial assistance is required to apply each year. Full details
are available in the Financial Aid Brochure or on the College website (www.gcc.edu). Every effort is
made to provide financial assistance for applicants who meet the academic qualifications and need
requirements; however, all applicants must be full-time students who are making academic progress.
Grove City College does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, creed, sex, marital status,
disability, or national or ethnic origin in the administration of its scholarship and loan programs.
Securing financial aid from any source outside the College is a student’s responsibility. Upon a student’s
request, the College will certify a student’s enrollment and provide other data with the clear
understanding that it is fulfilling a service to its students. The provision of such service, however, does
not indicate that the College is a recipient of the grant or loan funds received by the student, that it is in
any way administering any portion of the external program, or that it is responsible for decisions made by
outside donors or lenders (private or public). The College performs these limited services for all students
seeking private or public financial aid, except as stated in the following paragraph:
Grove City College does not certify any loans under the Federal Family Education Loan Program
(Stafford and Parent PLUS loans) or participate in the William Ford Direct Loan Program; the
Perkins Loan Program; Pell Grants; Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarships; Academic
Competitiveness Grants; TEACH Grants; SMART Federal Grants; Supplemental Education
Opportunity Grants; Federal Work Study; President’s Service Challenge Scholarship through the
Corporation for National and Community Service (also known as the Americorps Scholarship);
Paul Douglas Teacher Scholarships; National Science Scholars Program Scholarships; National
Academy of Science, Space, and Technology Grants; Presidential Access Scholarships; ROTC
Scholarships; educational benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs; assistance through the
Office of Health and Human Services (such as grants from the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation
or Blindness and Visual Services); JTPA; or any other scholarships or loans which may be
construed as providing direct or indirect federal aid to the College. The College will also not allow
any student to register for classes if it is aware that a student has accepted or received such federal
financial aid for that semester.
Grove City College has carefully reviewed the legislation pertaining to the GI Bill, a package of
educational benefits available to United States veterans and their dependents. Unfortunately, the
College can find no way to accept the benefits offered in this legislation without submitting to the
government control that is a requirement for participation in the program. Therefore, Grove City
College is unable to certify eligibility, receive funds, or otherwise participate in this program.
Scholarships
The income from a number of endowment funds is available for scholarship aid to students who qualify
on the basis of scholarship, financial need, and character. The Scholarship Committee, on a year-to-year
basis, awards these scholarships. Applications and supporting documents must be in the Financial Aid
Office on or before April 15, preceding the school year for which scholarship aid is requested (January 15
for students matriculating midyear).
A continuing student must have a cumulative QPA of 2.00 or greater to and successfully complete at least
24 credits each academic year to qualify for financial aid. Consult the Grove City College Financial Aid
web page on-line at www.gcc.edu or check The Bulletin for complete details.

50

How To Apply for Scholarship Aid
All students, prospective and continuing, who are applying for scholarship assistance, must submit a
Grove City College Financial Aid Application to the Financial Aid Office each year by April 15. The
application may be downloaded from the Financial Aid page of the College web site at
www.gcc.edu or submitted on-line.
Grove City College does not participate in any federal aid programs, and it does not utilize the Free
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) in applying for College financial aid programs. The
FAFSA is generally required in applying for financial aid from non-federal public sources, such as State
Grants, in which the College does allow its students to participate. Students should check with the
specific aid source to determine which forms are required for consideration by that source.
To expedite the financial aid process, students should apply as soon after October 1 as possible. In order
for the College to process a Financial Aid Application, students must include all required documents with
the application. Financial aid is awarded annually based on the aid application deadline and available
funds. All applications are due in the Financial Aid Office by April 15. Applications received from April
16 to July 15 will receive 50% of the scholarship that otherwise would be awarded. Applications received
after July 15 will not receive a scholarship award. Transfer applicants should contact the Financial Aid
Office regarding deadlines.
Financial aid decisions cannot be made until the student has been accepted for admission. Although
applicants must be offered admission to Grove City College to receive need-based financial aid,
applicants should not wait for an offer of admission before applying for financial aid. For incoming
freshmen who have completed the need-based financial aid application, official award letters will be emailed out within five days of their corresponding acceptance dates. For need-based financial aid
applications completed after those dates, aid packages will be e-mailed on a rolling basis. Award letters
for returning students who apply for financial aid each year are e-mailed in June to the student’s Grove
City College e-mail address.
Loan Funds
Students who need help in meeting their educational expenses may apply for any private loan program of
their choice. Many lenders offer private, alternative student loans to qualified borrowers that can be used
to fund a student’s college education. Please verify such loan is private, not federal, before applying.
Carefully review the terms and conditions of any loan before applying. Securing loans from any source
outside the College is a student’s responsibility. Upon a student’s request, the College will certify, except
for federal financial aid, a student’s enrollment and provide other data with an understanding that it is
fulfilling a ministerial service to its students.
The provision of that service does not indicate that the College is a recipient of the loan received by the
student or that it is in any way administering any portion of the loan program, or that it is responsible for
decisions made by the lenders.
Grove City College E-mail Accounts
Each student is provided a Grove City College e-mail account. The purpose of this account is to facilitate
communication between students, professors and other academic support services. It is essential for each
student to maintain and review their account since important communications are sent only by this means.
FOOD SERVICE
Grove City College partners with Parkhurst Dining to bring the students an exceptional dining experience
featuring delicious and high-quality menu items, flexible hours, and accommodations for allergies and
dietary restrictions.

51

Dining locations include:
Hicks Café
All-you-care-to-eat, featuring over 10 unique services stations.
Open Monday – Friday from 7 am – 9 pm and Saturday and Sunday from 7 am – 7 pm
Hicks Market
Visit the Hicks Market for Grab and Go options.
Open 24/7 with self-checkout technology.
Map Café
All-you-care-to-eat retail concepts, including Hell Bistro Express, Bowls, Inspired Eats, Deli, and a rotating
station determined by a student survey.
Open Monday – Friday from 7 am – 8 pm
Map Garage Café
Late night spot featuring pizza, scoops and Crimson Cup coffee.
Open Monday – Friday 8 pm – 11 pm and Saturday and Sunday from 5 pm – 12 am.
Map Market
A snack area that is open 24/7 with self-checkout technology
Chick-fil-A
Located in the Breen Student Union.
Open Monday – Saturday 10:30 am – 8 am
GLOBAL PROGRAMS and STUDY ABROAD
Office of Global Programs [OGP]: SHAL 319
Hours: 8:30 am - 12:00 pm and 1:00 pm - 4:30 pm
Website: http://www.gcc-global-programs.via-trm.com/
Phone: (724) 450-4016
Email: andersonrj@gcc.edu
The world is your campus! You can explore the world and learn about other cultures while pursuing your
education at Grove City College via our numerous study abroad programs. An international experience
will afford you the opportunity to travel, see the world, study and meet new people. We also welcome
international students and guests to campus for short stays or for long term study. Contact the Office of
Global Programs for any of the following student opportunities.
Faculty Led Travel Courses
Grove City faculty lead travel courses in January and May-June Intersessions to many destinations across
the globe. This enables students to explore other cultures and receive credit hours at the same time. Each
course meets the requirements of an on-campus course and may be taken for credit or audited. Required
readings, research, and pre-departure meetings occur the semester prior to the travel portion. Costs for a
travel course include tuition, travel, housing, food and some excursions. Passports are required for all
international travel and, in some cases, visas and immunizations may be required, as well. Offerings vary
from year to year.

52

Study Abroad
Students may study abroad for a semester, entire school year, or for a summer. Study abroad options are
flexible, although some are less flexible because of major requirements involving program certification
and external controls of accreditation. Study abroad courses can be applied to general graduation
requirements, electives, or major requirements. Transfer credits are accepted from any accredited college
or university program in the U.S. as well as international higher education credits that meet high academic
standards and are approved by the Office of Global Programs and the GCC Registrar. Many program fees
are comparable to on-campus expenses and GCC financial aid and scholarships are usually applicable. In
addition, many programs provide scholarships and financial aid or grants for study abroad. Students
typically study abroad in their sophomore and junior years, although doing so in the first semester of the
senior year is permissible. In addition, there are some exciting three week study abroad international
programs during December-January and May.
Opportunities are available all over the world with ample support from our program provider partners and
partner institutions. Notary services for international travel purposes are also provided free of charge.
Explore our website at https://gcc-global-programs.via-trm.com/ to learn about the hundreds of study
abroad programs available to GCC students.
Medical Missions Opportunities
We believe hands-on experiences and shadowing trained professionals in different cultures is a great way
to prepare students for medical challenges they will face in the future. Students minister to bodies and
souls as they travel to work domestically or internationally from two weeks to two months.
International Internships
International internships provide work opportunities abroad for experience in most majors. Internships
generally occur in the junior year and range in duration for 4-12 weeks. Research internships are available
at the junior level status for prospective careers in research after undergraduate training. Costs may
include passport/visa, work permit, housing, food, travel, and, in some cases, an internship fee. Credit
may be obtained from internships and is an additional cost. It is unusual for international internships to
provide monetary stipends.
Service Learning and Volunteer International Experiences
Students may elect to complete a volunteer experience or internship in an international destination any
time after freshman year. These experiences generally occur during breaks or in the summer, ranging in
duration from 2-12 weeks. All costs are at the expense of each student for all components of the
experience. Credit may be obtained for service learning, with the approval of the OGP and the assigned
professor for the service learning experience.
GO (Global Outreach) Missions
Each year, students are selected to go on summer-long individual mission trips to preapproved locations
of their choosing. Students apply for this opportunity through Campus Ministries. The College assists by
providing preparation seminars, and for funding for most travel expenses. The OGP partners with these
participants and provides resources for them.
ICO’S (Inner City Outreach)
ICO’s are student led service and missions opportunities to domestic and internationally approved sites
during a Christmas Break, Spring Break, or Intersession. The Office of Global Programs works closely
with Campus Ministries, giving oversight to international locations, cultural training, travel plans,
insurance, and health and safety concerns.

53

International Students
The OGP plays a vital role in receiving international students to the campus. We welcome, orient, and
assist international students with academics, cultural understanding, and in becoming a vital campus
participant through special events and personal advising. The PDSO for Grove City College is housed in
the OGP and any SEVIS reporting and visa related issues are handled through this office.
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
Office Location: Zerbe Health & Wellness Center
Clinic Hours (staffed by registered nurses): Monday-Friday: 8a.m.- 5p.m., Saturday: 10a.m.- 4p.m.,
Closed Sunday
College Physician’s Hours: by appointment starting at 4 p.m. Monday and Wednesday and 3 p.m.
Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday (until all scheduled students are seen)
Phone: 724-458-3850 (please call or email for an appointment so we can be sure you are seen)
Email: zcgordon@gcc.edu
Students may schedule an appointment to be seen by either a registered nurse or the physician/nurse
practitioner by calling 724-458-3850 or by emailing Mrs. Gordon at gordonzc@gcc.edu. Walk-in
appointments are discouraged. Physician/nurse practitioner services are provided by AHN/Family Health
Care Partners of Grove City, PA.
Students are welcome to continue seeing their home doctor and/or use outside services but should know
the College offers free basic health services, including physician appointments, through the Zerbe Health
and Wellness Center. In addition to the physician services, over-the-counter medications such as Tylenol,
Ibuprofen, cough syrup, etc., first aid, and some orthopedic supplies are available free of charge. Rapid
flu, rapid strep, and rapid Covid tests are also available as indicated. For inquiries about maintenance
therapy allergy injections, please contact Mrs. Gordon at gordonzc@gcc.edu. She will arrange for one of
the nurses to contact you. The health center does not provide entrance physicals or routine physicals
for employment, study abroad, or camps.
Medical Records
The College requires all incoming students to have an entrance physical examination done by their
personal health care provider. A report of medical history, a physical examination form and a record of
immunizations must be completed during this exam and returned to the health center prior to coming to
campus. Pennsylvania law also requires that the College have written proof of the meningitis vaccine or a
signed waiver if the vaccine is declined. Required health forms are available on the GCC website.
Outside Services
Students may be referred outside of the health center for additional services; in these instances, the
student assumes financial responsibility. Any outside services such as lab work, X-Ray, physical therapy,
and dental or eye care are the student’s financial responsibility. The student’s own health insurance carrier
should be billed as the primary carrier.
When immediate medical attention is required outside of physician hours, a student may be taken to the
Emergency Room of AHN Grove City for evaluation and treatment.
Transportation for immediate or emergency care may be done by Campus Safety, or an ambulance
may be dispatched. Any time a student has an urgent need for medical care due to severe illness, an
unexpected injury, or an accident, contact Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 for an immediate
response and assistance with the situation. In such cases, please be prepared to inform Campus
Safety of your location so they can rendezvous to you as quickly as possible.

54

While Campus Safety will respond and assist with any emergency needs, they are not available to provide
transportation for routine preplanned appointments.
Excused Absence
In the event of illness or injury, students may schedule an appointment to be seen at the health center. If
the illness or injury results in a class or classes being missed the student should notify the
professor/instructor by email and make arrangements for missed class or makeup work. If it is
determined, after examination at the health center, that the illness/injury prevents class attendance or
requires the student to be confined, a representative of the health center will issue a medical reason for
absence which the student can present to the professor/instructor. Commuter students whose illness does
not require a visit to the health center should notify their professor/instructor. If a student’s own health
provider issues a medical reason for absence, the student is not required to go to the health center. The
Office of Student Life and Learning does not issue medical excuses except in cases of emergency. In
an emergency such as hospitalization, the Office of Student Life and Learning should be contacted at 724458-2700. Students are responsible for contacting their instructors to arrange make-up work for the
classes they miss.
Home Care
Students with contagious diseases (e.g., measles, mumps, chicken pox, etc.) are required to go home for
medical treatment.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
ITS Office: Technological Learning Center (TLC) Suite 1
Phone: (724) 458-2255 Main Office
Hours: Monday – Friday 8a – 5p
Computer Services & Support (Help Desk)
Help Desk: (724) 458-2255 (on campus dial x2255) or HelpDesk@gcc.edu
Repair Shop Hours: Monday – Friday 8a – 5p
Help Desk Hours:
Monday – Thursday 8a – midnight
Friday 8a – 9p
Saturday 8a – 5p
Sunday 2p – midnight
Website: https://grovecitycollege.sharepoint.com/sites/CSSComm
GCC Helpdesk: http://helpdesk.gcc.edu
Crimson Card Office (Suite 2)
Phone: (724) 264-4705
Hours: Monday – Friday 8a – noon; 1p – 5p
MyGCC (https://my.gcc.edu) is your “Campus Connection.” A vast array of on-campus resources can be
found on MyGCC. The portal contains announcements, your financial and academic information (course
schedules, grades, unofficial transcripts, and course offerings), electronic communities, forms, policies,
software updates, calendars and other information.
Tablet PC’s/Laptops
All full-time students receive the use of a business class 2-in-1 laptop. Students who are full-time when
they graduate get to keep the equipment. Students are expected to utilize the computers throughout their
college careers, gaining skills which not only will enhance their educational experience but also lay the
foundation for success in their chosen professions. More details on the computer system can be found at -

55

http://www.gcc.edu/Home/Admissions-Financial-Aid/Financial-Aid-Scholarships/No-Fee-TechnologyPackage
Computer Services & Support (CSS)
Located on the ground floor of the Technological Learning Center (TLC), trained student associates at
Computer Services & Support are ready to respond to computer software questions and hardware repair
needs. This is the first place for service on Microsoft products, class-specific applications, printing,
hardware problems and repairs. CSS serves as the front-end to all computer system services, networking
and communication needs. Computer Services and Support makes every reasonable effort to avoid out-ofpocket expenses related to GCC-issued equipment. The Repair Shop is staffed with certified technicians,
and we do not charge labor fees for repairs or shipping on warranty replacement parts. However, students
– not the College – will be held financially responsible for events or situations which are not covered by,
or result in the termination of, the manufacturer’s warranty or other GCC-issued coverage. Events of this
type include, but are not limited to:
• Loss, theft, or fraud
• Fire, Flood, or damage caused in vehicular accidents
• Intentional misuse, abuse, vandalism, or failure to properly maintain the device
• Failure to meet the requirements of the manufacturer’s Accidental Damage Protection Policy
• Excessive Accidental Damage claims
• Cosmetic damages
• Disassembly, modification, or attempted repair by any entity other than the CSS Repair Shop,
unless expressly authorized in writing by the CSS Repair Shop. Students and family members,
regardless of certification or skill level, are not permitted to perform repairs on GCC issued
equipment.
Students are responsible for the cost of replacing all consumables, as defined by the equipment’s
manufacturer. While the Tablet PC has a 4-year warranty, some accessories (such as the stylus) may have
a warranty as short as 1 year. Device failures outside the warranty period may be at the student’s cost. In
the event of a warranty-violating event (such as unauthorized repair), the student will be billed for the
current replacement value of the system, regardless of whether it is operational or not. Other uncovered
repairs (such as the replacement of a screen due to misuse or neglect or uncovered accidental damage)
will incur the cost of the part and shipping fees (if applicable) – no labor charge will be assessed.
Repair Shop
The College’s repair shop (manned by full-time technical staff) is responsible for hardware problems
relating to all GCC computer and printer systems, coordinating the software configuration for all GCC
computers, and other various troubleshooting activities. If you are having trouble with your computer or
printing to our network printers, first contact the Computer Services & Support Help Desk for an
evaluation. The desk workers will determine if your computer needs to be referred to the Repair Shop.
Mobile Computer Security
By their very nature, Tablet PCs are designed to be lightweight, easy to transport and simple to conceal.
These features, however, which make the Tablet PC’s an ideal choice for computer users, also make it
extremely vulnerable to theft. There are a few basic rules which should be followed to minimize the
chance of theft:
•
•
•

Lock the door to your residence hall room whenever you leave - no matter how long you plan to
be gone. This is a good rule to follow, even if your Tablet PC is not in your room.
Never leave your Tablet PC unattended in a classroom, lounge, cafeteria, or any public place.
Display your name in a prominent place on your Tablet PC, and your backpack.

56

•

Record the serial numbers of the equipment issued to you, and place information in a secure
location.

It is extremely important to recognize that each student is responsible for the security of his or her
own computer equipment. Should a theft occur, the official policy of Grove City College will be to treat
the theft (or attempted theft) of a computer in a similar manner to any other type of on campus theft.
Namely, an individual found responsible for a theft or attempted theft will be subjected to disciplinary
action, up to and including immediate dismissal from Grove City College.
Computer System Insurance
Students are required to purchase insurance coverage for the issued equipment. Students, not the College,
will be held responsible in the event of loss, theft, or damage to the computer system. Students assume
full responsibility for the security and protection of the computer system and for keeping the equipment in
good working order. If the computer system is lost, stolen, or damaged beyond what is typically covered
under the manufacturer’s warranty (where applicable), the student will be required to pay to the College
the replacement value of the computer system or repair cost. Personal Property Insurance can be obtained
for less than $100/year to cover the ITP equipment, and we provide information for a recommended
vendor with the equipment.
Technological Learning Center Computer Lab
The Technological Learning Center Computer Lab is open to all students. Touch-down points with full
keyboard, mouse and monitor(s) are available, and loaner equipment may be available depending on the
duration of a repair.
Ownership
Upon completion of your degree as a full-time student, Grove City College will assign/transfer ownership
of the computer system to the student. The Technology Program Agreement signed in relation to the
distribution of the equipment will then be terminated.
There are certain circumstances in which a student must return the issued equipment to the College. If a
student no longer maintains full-time, matriculated status, the equipment must be returned, so please keep
all issued equipment in good condition. Remember, as a student, you will not assume ownership of the
equipment until you have completed a bachelor’s degree as a full-time student.
Networking and Communication
The campus is fully wired, and you can connect to the College’s campus network from any computer as
long as you have a valid username and password. Each college residence hall is equipped with
networking connections for each resident. These connections provide students with access to Internet,
campus e-mail and other College resources. Most locations on campus are also equipped with the
College’s wireless network. The College highly discourages you from bringing any network device, such
as a wireless router, with you. These devices may and have caused problems in the residence halls when
connected to the College network. If the ITS staff detects any unauthorized network device, you will be
instructed to remove it immediately. If the device is connected a second time, the device will be
confiscated. Any networking/communication issues should be reported to the Computer Services &
Support Desk (x2255).
Campus Computing System Policy
Technology has become an increasingly essential part of College activities. Use of the Grove City College
computing resources is intended for purposes in keeping with the mission of the College. Registered
students are provided access to appropriate computing resources and are encouraged to make use of these
resources for purposes related to their studies and instruction, official business with the College and other

57

College-sanctioned activities. Use of Grove City College computing resources is a privilege to which all
registered students are entitled. Acceptable use begins with individual responsibility in adhering to
applicable local, state and national laws. Furthermore, in keeping with the College’s mission and goals,
all use should promote the academic, social, spiritual, and moral development of the campus. The
following lists, while not exhaustive, offer guidance on improper usage:
What Constitutes Illegal Use?
• Obscenity
• Child Pornography
• Copyright Infringement - It is a violation of federal and state law to reproduce or distribute
copyrighted materials such as books, manuscripts, recorded sounds, music, movies and
computer software. This includes Peer to Peer (P2P) file sharing of copyrighted material on
the College network.
• Threats and Pranks
• Computer Security Violations - It is a violation of federal and state law to disrupt the integrity
of another’s computer system or to compromise any data integrity, confidentiality or
availability, including obtaining unauthorized access to government computers, accessing a
computer database to disrupt its normal function, or publishing, without the authorization, a
password, identifying code or other confidential information concerning a computer or
database.
• Export Control Violations - Federal law limits the ability of persons to export encryption
software to points outside the United States.
• Scams and Pyramid Schemes
What are some activities not in keeping with Grove City College’s mission and Goals?
• Obtaining another person’s password without explicit consent
• Probing or querying a computer, network device or computer service without the explicit
consent of the owner
• Improperly using the College’s Internet service
• Utilizing the campus computing system for commercial gain or private profit (gambling is
strictly prohibited)
• Circumventing software used to block certain Internet sites or to maintain system security
• Attaching unauthorized equipment to the College network
• Using College-assigned network addresses without authorization
• Accessing, copying, modifying, transferring, or destroying other’s information without
permission
• Harassing others through the campus computing system
• Using the College seal or logo, or the photographs of any member of the College community,
without authorization
• Using College-assigned computer or network names to misrepresent personal computer
resources on the College network (ex. “GCC,” “Grove City College,”)
• Tying up resources through activities such as network gaming and mass e-mailing
• Employing the campus computer system in violation of the College’s “Honesty in Learning”
statement in the The Bulletin, the “Community Standards” delineated in The Crimson, or
standards specified in the faculty and staff handbooks
College ID (Crimson) Card Services
Each current Grove City College student will be issued a Crimson (ID) card for identification purposes
and for use of the Grove City College 1Card services. This card must be carried at all times while on
campus and presented upon request. This card gives current students privileges and access to services and

58

events across campus (e.g., door access, dining services, Crimson Cash, library services, PLC fitness
rooms, Chapel attendance, printing & copying, etc.)
If your Crimson Card is lost or stolen, you should report it immediately by contacting either the Crimson
Card Office or Campus Safety (after business hours). Temporary and/or replacement IDs are available at
the Crimson Card Office (TLC) during normal business hours. After hours, Temporary IDs can be
obtained from the Campus Safety Office (Crawford). For the current ID Card Replacement Fee, please
refer to the Student Accounts: Billing and Payments section under Expenses.
You are responsible for any misuse or abuse of the card until it is reported as lost. You can read all of the
“Terms and Conditions” regarding your card and Crimson Cash by logging onto MyGCC and going to
the “Crimson Cash Deposits” portlet on the Financial Info tab. If you believe you have just “misplaced”
your card and believe you will find it, you can get a temporary card from the Crimson Card office during
normal business hours. After office hours you can acquire a temporary access card at the Campus Safety
Office to get into your residence hall. Temporary cards must be returned when you either find your card
or purchase a new card. Temp cards are deactivated after 48 hours. Replacement cards can be picked up at
the Crimson Card office in the TLC during posted business hours. The student Crimson Card must be
surrendered to Student Life and Learning if you are leaving the College for reasons other than graduation.
You should never allow anyone else to use your card. Any card found in the possession of someone other
than its owner will be immediately confiscated and the holder and owner reported to Student Life for
disciplinary action. Crimson Cards are made of PVC and contain an antenna coil and integrated electronic
chip. In order to maintain the functionality of your card, follow these handling recommendations:
• Place the card in a wallet, purse or appropriate carrying pouch.
(Keeping the card in your phone case can make it cease to function. We do not recommend
using this type of holder.)
• Do not punch a slot or hole in your card or place it on a key ring.
• Do not use the card for any purpose other than access control, identification and other
College services.
• Do not leave in direct sunlight (for example, on the dash of a car).
• Do not expose to extreme heat or open flame (for example, clothes dryers or irons).
• Do not expose to any liquids or cleaning materials.
• Do not crimp, bend or twist card.
• Do not re-laminate.
IMAGO DEI CENTER
Office: Breen Student Union, 2nd Floor, Room 211
Hours: Monday - Friday from 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Phone: (724) 264-4675
Email: IDC@gcc.edu or HunterKJ@gcc.edu
The Imago Dei Center exists to provide support and programming for Grove City College students,
especially for those from diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Inspired by the Biblical call for all
believers to be united in Christ, and in accordance with the Board of Trustees’ directives and commitment
to this charge, the Imago Dei Center seeks to glorify God by promoting a campus community that is
marked by its hospitality, care, and love of neighbor. The Center seeks these ends through an offering of
experiential and relational programs that afford students the opportunity to grow individually and the
campus community to grow corporately. The director is also available for dialogue and support.

59

LIBRARY
Location: Henry Buhl Library
Hours:
Monday - Thursday 7:30 a.m. -1 a.m. (9 p.m. – 1 a.m. ID card access only)
Friday 7:30 a.m. – 7:30 p.m. (5:00 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. ID card access only)
Saturday 8 a.m. – 6 p.m.
Sunday 2 p.m. – 1 a.m. (9 p.m. – 1a.m. ID card access only)
Hours during break will be posted on the door and the webpage.
Webpage: hbl.gcc.edu
Reference Desk: 724-264-4729
Services
Assistance with library resources and research is available from the reference desk. Questions are
welcome and may also be emailed to the reference desk at any time - refdesk@gcc.edu. Huddle rooms
with Microsoft Surface Hubs are available for reservation. Consult the library’s web page for instructions
and rules. Books and journal articles not available in the library may be obtained through the services of
interlibrary loan and document delivery. Access to the library’s databases is available from off campus. If
you are unable to connect to the library’s databases or e-resources, please contact the TLC HelpDesk for
assistance. For more information on these and other library services, visit the library’s webpage.
Courtesies
Cell phone use is not permitted in the library. Phone calls are permitted only in designated areas of the
building. Drinks with secure lids and light, contained snacks are permitted. Please use caution and
common sense when having food and drink in the library. Food is not permitted in the huddle rooms. The
book stacks and the lower-level reference area are reserved for quiet study. Conversation in the learning
commons are to be kept quiet and brief. Courtesy and respect for others is expected.
MAIL ROOM
Office Location: Ground Floor, Breen Student Union
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 5 p.m. & Saturday, 2:30 p.m. – 5 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-2131
Students have access to their mailboxes in the Breen Student Union 24/7 during the academic year and
are encouraged to check them regularly. The Mail Room accepts and distributes incoming campus mail,
U.S. Mail, and packages from the U.S. Postal Service, UPS, FedEx, DHS, LaserShip, and Amazon. Those
receiving a package will be notified via e-mail and must scan their ID at the mailroom window during
regular business hours before the package can be released. Outgoing packages that do not have an
authorized return label need to be shipped through the U.S. Post Office or similar shipping services, as
they cannot be shipped through the College Mail Room. The College Mail Room can take and ship
packages that have an authorized prepaid return label for USPS, UPS, or Fed Ex. For the current Mailbox
Key Replacement Fee, please refer to the Student Accounts: Billing and Payments section under
Expenses. Mailbox keys are distributed when new students first arrive and must be returned to the Mail
Room prior to leaving campus for the last time. Emergency or unexpected closings will be posted outside
the mailroom window.

60

MEDIA SERVICES
Office Location: HBL Lower Level (around the corner from the TLC HelpDesk)
Hours: Monday – Friday 8:30 a.m. – Noon & 1 p.m. – 4:30 p.m.
GCC Media Services, a subunit of the Information Technology Services (ITS) department, is responsible
for all campus multimedia needs, including technical and audiovisual services, providing:
• technical assistance at campus events
• classroom and auditorium AV support
• chapel services with simulcast overflow
• audio and video recording for lectures or special events
• studio video production
• web-based streaming media, both live and archived
• equipment loans, including projectors/screens
• summer conference technical support
To request live technical support, equipment rentals, videorecording, or other AV resources for an event
you are planning, please notify the campus events manager (x2211) at the time you reserve the campus
venue. Due to high demand, all resource requests must be made at a minimum of two weeks in advance.
Common loaned items include portable projectors and screens, DJ sound and lighting systems, and digital
recording equipment, all of which are available free of charge.
Any other AV-related inquiries should be directed to mediaservices@gcc.edu.
OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
Office Location: Lincoln Avenue Center (LAC)
Hours: Monday – Friday 7:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-3200
Email: Operations@gcc.edu
The Operations Department is responsible for three areas of the College’s physical plant:
repairing/refurbishing the existing campus, maintaining the current beauty of campus buildings and
grounds, and overseeing the construction of new projects.
Facilities:
Housekeeping and maintenance staff are tasked with keeping the public areas of each campus building
clean and in working order. Students are requested to help with these efforts by cleaning up after
themselves and returning furniture to its original location when moved.
Work Orders
If you encounter any facility issues on campus you can submit a work order online. Each room has a QR
code on the door frame that can be scanned to submit a request. The request will be processed through the
facilities team and progress updates will be sent by email.
If you encounter a building maintenance emergency, please call 724-458-3200 during business hours. If it
is after hours, please call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000.

61

PRINT PRODUCTION SERVICES
Office Location: TLC (near the HelpDesk)
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m.– 5 p.m. (break and summers hours will be posted)
Phone: 724-458-2160 or 724-458-2161 or 724-458-2046
Email: printrequest@gcc.edu
Print Production Services in the TLC offers printing for College employees and students. Color and black
& white, single- or double-sided printing is available. Various paper weights and sizes are also available
for any type of print. Please see the Print Production brochure for details. Forty-eight hours lead time for
all work is requested, but not required. Please plan in advance. Send all requests with attached files in
PDF format to printrequest@gcc.edu. Questions can be sent to this e-mail address or feel free to call or
stop by with any inquiries.
Accepted forms of payment for printing in the Print Production Services Center is Crimson Cash or
check, made out to Grove City College. Payment must be made upon job pickup. No Cash transactions
can take place. Money can be added to your Crimson cash account at the Financial Services Office in
Crawford Hall or on MyGCC using a credit card.
Large format posters, banners (indoor & outdoor), wall graphics and yard sign printing are also available.
Poster pricing is based on paper size and ink coverage. Estimates can be provided on request.
Various finishing options are available for any type of project. Fold, staple, 3-hole punch, cut, booklet,
binding (comb or spiral bind), laminate, and mount.
RESIDENCE LIFE
Office Location: Breen Student Union, Second floor
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-2171
Email: studenthousing@gcc.edu
Philosophy of Residence Life
The Residence Life team strives to form meaningful relationships that support and challenge our students,
with the intent of creating communities that flourish and helping individuals thrive.
Program Leadership
The Residence Life team is led by Tori Wright, the Director of Residence Life (724-450-4045) and
Assistant Directors Chris Merrick (724-458-3356) and Naomi Hollgarth (724-458-3315).
The Discretion of the Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Life & Learning
The Director of Residence Life, or designee, retains the right to grant exceptions to any residence life
housing policy or requirement as stated in the Residence Life section of The Crimson. If an exception to a
student’s housing status or other housing policy is desired, a timely request should be made in writing to
studenthousing@gcc.edu. Requested exceptions will be granted on a case-by-case basis and only if the
exception is in the best interests of the College, the requesting student, and the entire campus community.
While endeavoring to provide safe and effective housing for resident students, the College retains all
rights of ownership and therefore considers all who reside in its facilities to have agreed to abide by all
College regulations applying to campus housing. As a result, the College reserves the right to require a
resident to move to a new housing assignment or to revoke on-campus living privileges whenever the best
interests of the College appear to demand such action.

62

Resident Directors
The Resident Director is the full-time professional staff member residing within each residence hall who
is responsible for cultivating and sustaining a safe and positive student living learning environment.
Residence Directors oversee and manage a staff of Resident Assistants (student staff) who assist them in
providing for the emotional, spiritual, and physical needs of their residents.
Alumni Hall:
Colonial Hall Apartments:
Harker Hall:
Hicks Hall:
Hopeman Hall:
Ketler Hall:
Lincoln Hall:
Memorial Hall:
MEP Hall:
MAP North Hall:
MAP South
West Hall:

Ben Meekin
Si Mitchell
Eryn Slippy
Daniel Hollidge
Isaac Cooke
Chris Merrick
Ben Meekin
Christian Butera
Hanna Kincer
Naomi Hollgarth
Jessie Gayer
Jessie Gayer

724-458-3310
724-264-1250
724-458-3312
724-458-3316
724-458-3311
724-458-3856
724-458-3310
724-458-3309
724-458-3314
724-458-3315
724-458-3317
724-458-3317

Resident Assistants
Resident Assistants are returning students who are selected by the Residence Life team for their
leadership, character, maturity, and commitment to the Grove City College community. Resident
Assistants aid the Resident Director in cultivating and sustaining a safe and supportive atmosphere for all
students. They are responsible for maintaining and encouraging adherence to Grove City College’s
Community Standards and creating opportunities for student learning, engagement, and thriving on
campus.
Resident Director On Call
A Resident Director is on call at all times when the residence halls are open. Should a student encounter
an emergency or desire to be connected to a Resident Director On-Call for emotional or in-person
support, they should call the Campus emergency number at x 3000 (724.458.3000).
Residential Living
Residence Halls
Grove City College has eleven traditional residence halls in addition to the on-campus Colonial Hall
Apartments. Each residence hall is gender-specific, using birth gender, including the Colonial Hall
Apartments where men and women occupy rooms on opposite sides of the building separated by a main
lobby and card-access doors. Each student room on campus is furnished with one bed, dresser, desk,
chair, and wardrobe (or closet) per student. Residence halls are open when classes are in session,
including fall break and Easter break. The residence halls are closed during Thanksgiving, Christmas, and
Spring break as well as during summer break.
Meal-plans
All students residing in one of the eleven traditional residence halls on campus are required to have a 21meal plan each semester. Students residing in the Colonial Hall Apartments are not required to have a
meal plan as their apartments contain kitchens. However, those residing in the apartments, as well as
commuter students, may purchase dining options for a given semester by logging onto MyGCC and
clicking on Food Services under the “Campus Services” tab.

63

Housing Requirement
Grove City College is a residential college, requiring all full-time students to live in campus housing and
participate in the College’s board plan with the exception of those commuting from the permanent home address of a
parent or primary non-peer relative (grandparent, aunt, or uncle) living within a 40-mile radius of the College.
Non-residential students must complete the Commuter Address Confirmation form annually to verify their
commuting address and affirm compliance with this policy. No full-time student may rent, occupy or live in
unauthorized off-campus housing during the fall and spring semesters. Those found to be living in a
residence other than the one approved by the College will be charged with a violation of the community
standards and subject to disciplinary sanctions up to and including suspension. More commonly, the
student will be required to move into assigned campus housing and charged the full semester’s room and
board.
Off-Campus Living
Grove City College is committed to the holistic development of its students. In fulfilling our mission to be
“authentically Christian” Grove City College puts great value on the intellectual, social, moral, spiritual,
and emotional development of our students. We affirm that students thrive within the context of
community, and that the communal nature of these formative years genuinely enhances the undergraduate
experience. Thus, all full-time students are required to live on-campus unless they fall under one of the
following exceptions:
Qualifications for Off-Campus Housing
• Commuter: Students may commute from their parent or guardian’s full-time legal place of
residence provided that residence is located, normally, within a 40-mile radius of Grove City
College.
• Commuter by exception: Students desiring to commute from the full-time legal residence of a
primary non-peer relative (aunt, uncle, or grandparent only) located within a 40-mile radius of
Grove City College must seek permission to do so by emailing studenthousing@gcc.edu. These
arrangements must be completed no later than one month prior to the first day of classes in the
semester for which the student is applying to live off campus.
• Marriage: Grove City College does not provide housing for married couples. As a result, married
students simply need to provide confirmation of their marital status in order to live off campus.
• Medical: Students may qualify to live off campus based on a documented medical condition
which clearly demonstrates the need for off campus housing. Please see the “Accommodations”
section below for more information on how to request such permission.
• Military: Students returning to Grove City College from active duty in the armed forces may opt
to live off campus. This exception is limited to those students coming directly from deployment
to campus at the start of a semester.
• Over the age of 23: Students who will be 23 years of age, or older, prior to the scheduled first
day of fall classes may opt to live off campus. Students should not assume they may live off
campus for the spring semester if they have chosen not to live off campus in the fall. Please see
the “Changing Housing Status” section below for further information.
• Over the age of 25: Students who are 25 years of age, or older, prior to the scheduled first day of
fall classes are required to live off campus.
• Part-time: The College does not provide housing for those with part-time student status. (11
credits or less per semester)
• Super-senior: Students who have attended four or more years (eight semesters) of undergraduate
education, (including time abroad and/or at other colleges or universities) are permitted to
live on campus, as enrollment numbers allow. In order to allow super-seniors to go through the
spring semester housing process, students who have been living on-campus during their senior
year will be assumed to be continuing to live on campus as a super-senior unless the College is

64

•

informed otherwise. Requests to live off campus must be submitted to the Student Life &
Learning Office by submitting a student status change from on my.GCC. Student class status is
determined by the Registrar. Post-baccalaureate students are required to live off campus.
Students with super-senior status for Spring semester only: Students who are listed as having
“Super-Senior” or “Fifth-Year” standing with the Registrar for only the spring semester of a
given academic year may live off campus for the entire academic year. However, this decision
must be made prior to the scheduled first day of fall classes. Students should not assume that they
may live off campus for the spring semester if they have chosen not to live off for the entire
academic year. Please see the “Changing Housing Status” section below for further information.

Expectations for off-campus living
• Students approved for off-campus housing must commute from the address for which they
applied and from which they were approved to live. Students are also required at all times to
maintain their current address on file.
• The College reserves the right to require a student to move to another off-campus location or to
move on campus if the College determines there to be a sufficient health, safety, academic or
moral concern with the student’s off-campus living situation.
• All students permitted or required to live off campus are still recognized as members of the Grove
City College community and as such are obligated to honor their commitment to Grove City
College’s Community Standards and expectations as outlined in The Crimson and other related
Student Life & Learning policies. In addition to these College standards, off-campus students are
reminded they are also required to abide by the local laws and ordinances of the communities in
which they reside.
• Students living off campus are expected to be good neighbors, respectful and considerate of the
rights and needs of their neighbors, and sensitive to issues regarding noise, parking, guests,
upkeep of dwelling, etc.
Changing Housing Status
A student desiring to change his/her housing status, i.e., a student desiring to change from resident to
commuter or vice versa, may do so by completing a Housing Status Form, available on my.gcc.edu The
request to change status must be approved by the Office of Residence Life before the change is official.
Students are encouraged not to make changes in their housing arrangements until the request has been
officially approved.
Students seeking to change their status from commuter to resident in the year to come are strongly
encouraged to complete the required form at least two weeks prior to Room Draw in the spring semester
to ensure the ability to participate in the housing selection process.
Room Selection and Assignment
Accommodations
Students with a documented medical need who require specific housing accommodations must contact the
Disability Services Office in the Academic Resources Center at 724.264.4673 or at arc@gcc.edu. The
health form that is required for incoming freshmen does not satisfy the documentation needed to request
specific housing accommodations as it is kept confidentially on file with the Zerbe Health Center.
Please note that we are unable to meet any medically related housing need unless the accommodation is
properly requested through the Disability Services Office in the Academic Resources Center. Your timely
accommodation request is appreciated and ensures our ability to provide the best housing situation
possible.

65

Please note that accommodation requests made after the start of an academic semester are more difficult
to meet based on bed availability and our need to serve our entire student population well.
Upperclassmen with ongoing special housing needs are responsible for reaffirming those needs annually
with the Disability Services Office in the Academic Resources Center. In order to ensure suitable housing
arrangements for the fall semester, current students should submit official documentation before March
1st.
Room Draw (for Fall Semester)
Each spring, non-graduating enrolled students will have the opportunity to participate in the housing
selection process for the following fall semester. Students who are not residing on campus but who wish
to do so for the current or following academic year must fill out a Student Status Change Form (please
see above). Prior to Room Draw, students will be sent an email confirming their housing status for the fall
semester as shown in the school’s central database, i.e., commuter, resident, off campus, abroad, etc. If
this status is incorrect contact the Student Life & Learning Office for instructions. A housing deposit is
charged to the student account of students who have a housing status of resident for the following
semester. This deposit will be posted on March 1st and is refundable if the student notifies the College of
their withdrawal or changes their housing status to non-resident prior to June 30th. The deposit is nonrefundable if notification is made on July 1st or later.
Room Draw Eligibility
Eligibility for participation in Room Draw is contingent on each of the following having been fulfilled in
advance of Room Draw:
• The student must be enrolled at Grove City College during the spring semester in which Room
Draw takes place. Students who are studying abroad or who are enrolled in a College approved
internship are eligible to participate
• The student must be listed in the College housing database as “resident” status for the fall
semester.
• The student must have his/her fall housing deposit paid by the appropriate deadline.
• The student must have no outstanding balance due on his/her student account at the time of Room
Draw.
Room Draw Process
Students will receive their round number via their Grove City College email at least twenty-four hours in
advance of Room Draw. Please note these random numbers are created for all students at the same time
and are based on class level.
Room Draw is conducted by class seniority, beginning with the current senior with the lowest housing
lottery number. There is no requirement for a student to fill his/her room with members of his/her own
class, i.e., a senior could room with a junior or sophomore. As a result of the desire to provide freshmen
with the opportunity to live together, currently enrolled upperclassmen may not choose an incoming
freshman student as a roommate.
Housing Via Squatting
Female independent (unattached to a sorority) students are given the opportunity to “squat” with their
peers in MAP South-West Hall. Students who choose to join a squatting floor will be permitted to stay in
their same hall/room for the duration of their time at The College. The application for squatting takes
place each Spring, prior to Room Draw. Independent female students who do not enter the squatting
process will take part in the normal Room Draw process. Note: Although designed for independent
female students, upperclass sorority members can also apply should their sorority hall be full.

66

Housing Selection Process (for Spring Semester)
Students entering Grove City College in the spring semester, students returning from a fall semester
studying abroad, students returning from a fall off-campus College-approved internship, and students
being readmitted to the College after a temporary leave of absence will be contacted by the Office of
Residence Life in early December to discuss housing arrangements for the spring semester and will do its
best to meet individual requests regarding housing placement. However, it should be noted that bed
availability in the Spring is limited. The College reserves the right at any time to assign students to a
room with one or more open beds.
Room Changes
The College views living and interacting within the residence halls as part of the student’s overall
learning experience. Working through a relational issue within the context of a living situation helps to
build invaluable communication and conflict management skills that are transferable later in life (in the
workplace, your church, local communities, and other relationships). As a result, the Residence Life team
is committed to assisting students in developing and utilizing these skills in the context of the residence
hall experience. In the case of a roommate conflict, Residence Life’s commitment is to help all involved
parties resolve the conflict and, when possible, the relationship. If a student finds him or herself involved
in a roommate conflict the following procedure should be followed:
• The students involved in the conflict should first talk to each other, working to achieve
reconciliation in an open, honest, and caring manner. Issues should be directly, but tactfully
addressed.
• If the students themselves are not able to resolve the conflict, they should involve the Resident
Assistant to mediate the situation. There should be a good faith attempt on the part of the students
to meet the conditions of a compromise, should one be attained.
• Should the conflict remain unresolved, the students should involve the Resident Director to
mediate the conflict. Here, too, a good faith attempt should be made to bring the disagreement to
a fair and equitable resolution.
• If the conflict still cannot be resolved, the Residence Life Staff will confer with respect to
employing other means to resolve the conflict. If the Residence Life staff deem a room change is
necessary, such a change will typically occur at the conclusion of the semester.
o In light of our educational goals and facility needs, we ask that students partner with the
Residence Life team in addressing any struggle or concern that may arise in their living
situation.
o Students who change rooms without the prior approval of Residence Life will be required
to move back to their original room assignment and will be charged a minimum fine of
$100.00.
• At the conclusion of the Fall semester, should students desire to change rooms, they can apply to
move to an open bed in a friend’s room. Students must complete the room change form which can
be provided by their residence director. Students approved to change their housing assignment
must check out of their old room, and into their Spring semester room prior to leaving for Winter
Break.
Openings, Closings, and Summer Housing
Early Arrivals
Requests to arrive on campus prior to the official opening of the residence halls will only be granted on a
limited basis (and will require an overnight fee). Students desiring to enter the residence halls prior to
their official opening should fill out the early arrival request form on my.GCC. Please note that the
granting of these requests is very limited. This includes returning to campus early from Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and/or Spring breaks. It is important to note that students are not permitted to move in some
or all of their belongings early, even if their roommate or friend has been granted permission to move in

67

early. Failure to comply will result in an improper check-in fine. All requests to arrive early with an
incoming freshman or transfer sibling must be made no later than two weeks prior to the desired
arrival date. Siblings of incoming freshmen or transfers who live beyond a reasonable radius of the
College may request permission to arrive on the first day of new student orientation. Early arrivals
granted permission to be on campus are not permitted to have overnight guests, all policies remain in
effect, and there are no open hours. Failure to abide by any of these requirements will result in a
substantial fine.
Opening of the Residence Halls
Students should go directly to their residence halls upon arrival in the fall semester. The Residence Life
staff in each hall will provide students with their room assignment, and their Room Condition Inventory
Form (first year residential students will also receive their Grove City College ID from the residence hall
staff). Students should go to their room prior to moving in their belongings and carefully compare the
condition of their residence hall room (and furniture) to the information on their Room Condition
Inventory Form. If a student feels the form is not complete, he/she should add the appropriate information
to the form and discuss the matter with a Residence Life staff member in their hall. Once the student has
checked the condition of their room and is satisfied that the information listed on the form accurately
reflects the condition of the room, he/she should sign and date the form and return it to the Residence Life
staff. At this time the student will receive the key to his/her room.
Please note it is crucial that the Room Condition Inventory Form reflect any room or furniture
damage, as well as the general condition of the student’s room, upon check-in. This form is the sole
record of the room condition prior to a student’s arrival. As a result, we strongly encourage students to
be extremely detailed in reviewing and completing the form. Students will be held accountable at
check-out for all damage not previously listed on this form (please see below for more information
regarding the closing of the residence halls).
Students are not permitted to move into their residence halls earlier than the designated move in dates
without prior permission from the Office of Residence Life. Moving in some or all of your belongings
early is also not permitted and could result in a fine.
Closing of the Residence Halls - Breaks
The residence halls, including the Colonial Hall Apartments are officially closed during the
Thanksgiving, Christmas, Spring, and summer breaks. Students should review the Grove City College
academic calendar in advance and make appropriate travel arrangements in regard to the closing of
residence halls.
All students and their belongings must be out of the residence halls by the scheduled closing time for
extended breaks. The College will leave the Breen Student Union open for a short time to accommodate
those students whose transportation may be delayed. Students are expected to make all reasonable efforts
to adhere to the residence hall closing times. It should be noted that at the conclusion of the Fall and
Spring semesters, students must also vacate their residence hall within 24 hours of their last final exam, or
by the scheduled hall closing time, whichever comes first, with the exception of seniors preparing to
graduate in the spring semester.
Students should pay close attention to the Residence Life staff’s instructions concerning proper check-out
when leaving their residence halls for a break or year-end closing. Time of year and varying length of
closure may necessitate different check-out procedures from break to break with students expected
to adhere to the specific protocols in place for each.

68

Inclement Weather at January Opening
Due to staffing limitations, residence halls will not be opened early for students returning from break
prematurely in order to avoid inclement weather. Students are encouraged to plan accordingly and may
desire to consult the list of local accommodations found on the Admissions web page.
The Director of Residence Life, or designee, in consultation with Campus Safety and other College
personnel, may alter hall closings in situations where weather-related travel concerns may arise. In
handling these weather concerns the College will focus on the immediate travel radius from campus and
not the student’s final travel destination.
Closing of the Residence Halls - End of Year
Year-end residence hall closing procedures include completion of a room check-out with a member of the
Residence Life staff. Those leaving the College prior to the end of the year are also expected to complete
this process prior to leaving campus. Failure to check out properly in either case will result in a fine for
improper check-out.
Students will be held responsible for all damage found to the room or furniture that is not previously
listed on the Room Condition Inventory Form provided to the student upon arrival. A final check of each
room will be made by Student Life & Learning staff within one week of Commencement. Please note that
student staff (RAs) do not have the authority to assess a fine or determine that a student will not receive a
charge at the time of check-out. Only an RD or member of the Student Life & Learning staff can
determine whether a charge will or will not be assessed to a student at the time of closing. Further damage
or cleaning needs assessments will be made at this time. Notifications will be sent to students the two
weeks following graduations. Any appeals must be received within 7 days of delivery of the e-mail, or the
posting of the fine to a student’s account, whichever comes first.
Please note, the Residence Life staff reserves the right to modify hours of availability for checking
students in and out of the residence halls on the specified dates listed on the College academic calendar.
Graduation Week Housing
Graduating seniors and enrolled undergraduate siblings are permitted to stay in their rooms through
residence hall closings on graduation day. Siblings of graduating students who desire to stay on-campus
through graduation must register at least two weeks prior to the day residence halls close to nongraduating students in order to guarantee their ability to stay on-campus through graduation. Sibling
requests to stay on campus must complete the delayed check-out request from found My.GCC.
Please note: the roommates and friends of those students who have a College-approved reason to be in the
residence halls are not permitted to stay on-campus. This includes, but is not limited to, the roommates of
graduating seniors, the roommates of siblings of graduating seniors, friends of those graduating, and the
roommates of those who are approved to stay because of their involvement with graduation ceremonies,
i.e., band, choir, ushers. Please also note that housing for graduation will not be provided for family and
friends other than siblings currently attending Grove City College.
Summer Housing
Current Grove City College students may be approved by the Residence Life Office to reside in the
Colonial Hall Apartments for all or part of the summer if they fall under one of the three following
conditions:
1. Required residence while employed by the College:
Students who are required to reside on campus during the summer as a condition of their employment
may do so without either being required to pay room charges or having the value of the lodging

69

considered taxable income. In this case, the student must accept the lodging to enable them to properly
perform the duties of their employment.
The employing department must submit the request to the Residence Life Office no later than May
1st.
2. Optional residence while employed by the College:
Students employed by the College who are given the option of residing on campus during the summer for
the convenience of the student will not pay room charges; however, the value of living in the residence
hall is taxable income to the student. Taxes on the calculated value of the lodging will be withheld from
the student each pay period by the Payroll Office. The minimum room charge that must be charged is the
lesser of five percent (5%) of the value of housing or the average room charge paid for housing by
individuals not associated with the College.
This value is currently based on the average daily summer rate charged of $20 per bed per day. The
minimum room charge is therefore calculated as $1.00 per day (5% of $20).
The employing department must submit the request to the Residence Life Office no later than May
1st.
3. Optional residence while participating in local internship for credit:
Subject to availability, students enrolled in a summer internship for academic credit with the College at a
local business/organization may be approved to reside on campus during the summer months if the
internship is not a commutable distance from their home address. Students will be charged a flat rate of
$1,800 to their student account for the entire summer residence period regardless of when they check in or
out. Payment is due by the Friday before Graduation and late payment fees will be applicable.
Students must submit the request to the Residence Life Office no later than May 1st for approval
along with proof of enrollment in internship for credit.
Additional Information:
Students approved for summer residence that are also taking May Intersession will remain in their spring
semester residence hall for the duration of May Intersession. For students paying for summer housing
under Item #3, the room portion of May Intersession housing fee will be waived (board charges will apply
for upper campus residents). Students under Items #1 and #2 will be subject to room and board charges
for May Intersession. Students not taking May Intersession will coordinate the move-in and move-out
dates with the Residence Life Office.
In all cases of summer residence, students will be required to sign and return the Residence Life Summer
Policy and Code of Conduct. A Resident Assistant will be on staff in Colonial Hall during the summer
residence period. Students should refer to this Policy for further details on how and when to check in and
out, summer residence expectations, etc.
Weekly Food Stipend:
Food stipends paid to an employee including student employees must be considered taxable income. The
food stipend will be added to the employee’s pay, and the appropriate taxes will be withheld. The stipend
is taxable because it is not a de minimis fringe benefit under sec 132(a)(4) since it can be accounted for
easily, is not infrequent, and is relatively substantial in dollar amount.
The employing department must submit the request for food stipends to the Payroll Office no later
than May 1st.

70

All summer students must officially check out of their summer room by July 31st.
Residence Life Standards, Expectations, and Services
Alcohol & Other Drugs
In accordance with the Grove City College Community Standards, alcohol and all illegal drugs are
prohibited in the residence halls. Alcohol containers, empty or full, and all drug paraphernalia are
prohibited and may not be used for decorating a residence hall room. In addition, glassware, posters,
clothing, and all other personal belongings that contain any alcohol or illegal drug branding or reference
are prohibited. Responsible behavior by those of legal drinking age is expected at all times.
Appliances
In the effort to reduce circuit overloading and potential fire hazards, the types of electrical appliances
allowed are limited to UL approved irons, hair dryers, curlers, and coffee makers without an exposed hot
plate or coil (automatic shut-off preferred). Refrigerators which are 4.5 cubic feet or smaller and
microwaves (900 watts or less) are also permitted. Please note that refrigerators may not be stored in
residence hall closets. All items with an exposed heating element such as toasters, George Foreman grills,
toaster ovens, hot plates, etc., are not permitted. Air fryers, crockpots, and rice makers are approved for
use, as they do not have exposed heating elements, but should still be used with caution. Deep frying is
not allowed in any residential unit under any circumstances. Such items as space heaters and heating fans
are not permitted in residence hall rooms unless placed in the room by authorized Operations personnel.
Babysitting
Babysitting is not permitted on campus. Siblings twelve years old and older may stay for a maximum of
two nights when registered with the Resident Director.
Bed Risers
Bed risers are allowed to create additional under bed storage for residents. In order for bed risers to be
used the following criteria must be followed:
• Bed risers must be made of high density polyethylene that holds at least 1,200 lbs.
• Bed risers may only be used on single beds and are not permitted to be used on beds that are
bunked.
• Beds may not be raised more than 6 inches.
• Bed risers made out of plastic, cinder block or PVC pipe are prohibited.
Bicycles
Bicycles are permitted on campus and the safe usage of bicycles is encouraged. Students should register
their bike on my.GCC through the Student Life page. For safety concerns bicycles may not be used or
stored in public areas such as lounges, hallways, stairwells, entrances/exits, or other non-designated areas.
The College has provided bicycle racks for your convenience at a variety of campus locations. In
addition, bicycles may be stored appropriately in your residence hall room provided they do not impede
safe exit from the room. Bicycles may not be hung from walls or ceilings. Bicycle riding in the residence
halls is prohibited. Residents may be charged for damage caused by transporting and storing bicycles in
the residence halls. Failure to abide by these bicycle policies could result in fines or loss of privilege to
store a bicycle in the residence halls. Bicycles cannot be locked to trees, railings, or fences; use of bicycle
racks is required if your bike is not being stored in your room. No summer storage for bikes is available
on campus. Bikes left on campus at the end of the academic year are considered abandoned property and
will be disposed of, sold or donated two weeks after Commencement.
Candles & Other Incendiaries
Candles or any other incendiaries (such as incense) are strictly prohibited.

71

Card Access System
All external residence hall doors and some hallway doors require the use of an ID card for access.
Students have access to same-gender residence halls. All doors are accessible by card during the day;
some doors may not be accessible at night. Both male and female students have open access during Open
Hours and to common lobbies from 9:00 a.m. - midnight. The card access system in such spaces is
activated at midnight. Improper use of an ID card may result in a fine of up to $100 and is considered a
student conduct violation. See more information under the Community Standards and Information
Technology Services.
Cleanliness of Residence Hall Rooms
Students are responsible for the cleanliness and order of their residence hall room and furniture. Rooms
are to be free of all trash including empty food and beverage containers. Perishable food items should be
stored in sealed containers in order to limit the likelihood of insect concerns.
The floors of all residence hall rooms should be neat and easily navigable. Refrigerators should be
cleaned regularly and free from mold or outdated food or drink. Clothes should be put away in drawers
and/or closets. Clothes, sheets, and towels should be washed regularly to prevent odor and other health
concerns. Vacuums are available for student use in each residence hall.
Rooms will be inspected periodically and during holiday breaks for health and safety concerns. Rooms of
first year students may be inspected by the Residence Life staff of Memorial, Hicks, West and North
Halls on a more frequent basis in the first semester to ensure cleanliness standards are up to par.
If concerns exist as to the condition of a student’s room the student will be given a window of time to
remedy the issue. However, if the student fails to respond to the staff’s cleaning requests a fine may be
levied. Students in residence halls shared suite bathroom are responsible for the cleanliness of the
bathrooms as well.
While the College will deep clean these bathrooms over Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Spring Break, the
expectation is that students will clean the bathrooms throughout the rest of the academic year. Failure to
appropriately clean the bathroom could result in fines being levied. For questions regarding appropriate
room conditions, please contact your Resident Director.
Confiscation Policy
Certain items are prohibited in the residence halls. These items are subject to confiscation by Residence
Life and Campus Safety personnel. When appropriate, confiscated items will be turned over to the
Campus Safety Office and disciplinary action taken by the Office of Student Life & Learning. Items
include, but are not limited to:
• Alcohol
• Alcohol or drug paraphernalia
• Candles and incendiaries
• Coffee pots, mug warmers, and/or other appliances with a hot plate, open flame or exposed
heating surface.
• Curtains and drapery other than those provided by the College
• Explosives (including fireworks)
• Extension cords failing to meet the minimum standard of 14-gauge wire
• Firearms
• Grills and/or flammables
• Heaters, air conditioners, and ceiling fans
• Helium Tanks

72

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Illegal Drugs
Knives with blades larger than 4 inches
Live Christmas trees
Multiple outlet adaptors without surge protectors
Obscene or Pornographic materials
Pets (other than fish)
Road signs, road cones, or other public property without proof of purchase
Satellite dishes
Surveillance cameras
Unapproved air conditioners or space heaters
Weapons of any sort, including water balloon launchers, air soft guns, and spent munitions.
Wireless Routers

In some cases, Residence Life staff will issue a fine and place the item in storage, allowing the student to
take it home at a later date. At the discretion of the Resident Director, storing items will only be allowed
on a very limited basis taking into consideration safety, space, length of time in storage, etc.
Cooking
For environmental, health, and safety reasons, cooking is not permitted in residence hall student rooms.
Cooking is allowed in the approved kitchens present in some halls, i.e., South Recreation Hall, Ketler
Recreation Hall, and in the Colonial Hall Apartments. (See “Appliances” for UL approved appliances
permitted in your residence hall room.) Ketler Recreation Hall Kitchen must be reserved through
my.gcc.edu and may not be used as a substitute for a meal plan.
Courtesy & Quiet Hours
To ensure a safe and healthy living and learning environment the College has provided that “Quiet
Hours” will be observed from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Sunday night through Thursday morning and
from 12:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. Friday night through Sunday morning in each residence hall. During
final exams, 24-hour quiet hours are in effect. During Quiet Hours all students and other people in and
around the residence halls are expected to refrain from making or causing noise, or any other disruption,
which infringes upon the rights of residents to study, reflect, and sleep. For purposes of clarity, any noise
from student rooms or apartments which can be heard in adjoining rooms or apartments will be
considered a violation of Quiet Hours. Likewise, any excessive noise in the hallway, residence hall
common areas, hall or outside a residence that disturbs someone in a residence hall room will be
considered a violation of the Quiet Hours policy.
Because of the diversity of student schedules and lifestyles, individual needs for study, reflection, or sleep
do not always correspond with enforced quiet hours. In the spirit of courtesy and in light of the academic
nature of Grove City College, the need and/or desire for a quiet atmosphere will take precedence over an
atmosphere of noise. As a result, Courtesy Hours will be in effect at all times.
In any situation involving differences of opinion regarding Quiet Hours and/or Courtesy Hours, all parties
involved should demonstrate understanding and civility toward one another and should attempt to resolve
conflicts among themselves prior to involving the Residence Life staff. Students are encouraged to share
responsibility in upholding quiet hours.
Damages & Billing
Any damage that occurs to College facilities or property will be billed to the responsible individual(s) via
student accounts. Disciplinary action is also possible if the circumstances resulting in the damage so
warrant. When damage cannot be attributed to the responsible person(s), all appropriate students may be

73

held responsible for the cost of repair, i.e., residence hall floor. In the case that a floor is held responsible,
the cost billed will be the actual cost of materials and labor.
Decoration & Personalization of Room
The College desires its students to view their residence halls as a “home away from home” and
encourages personalization of residence hall rooms. However, for reasons of safety and upkeep students
are expected to adhere to the following guidelines while doing so:
• Door numbers must be visible at all times.
• Nothing may hang from or be affixed to the ceiling or sprinkler heads.
• Flame retardant draperies or blinds are furnished by the College in residence halls and may not be
removed. No additional curtains may be hung.
• Fabric may not be hung on the ceilings or walls or around windows and doorways.
• Paper or cloth decorations hanging in doorways are prohibited.
• Windows and all access doors must be clear from obstruction.
• Doors must be able to open to the maximum radius.
• Paint of any kind is not to be used on Residence Hall or Apartment walls.
• White mounting putty or Scotch 3M Command Adhesive strips may be used on traditional
residence halls walls and doors. The use of nails, screws, or tacks on residence hall furnishings,
doors and walls is prohibited. Please note 3M strips need to be removed per the instructions on
the package to prevent facility damage. No adhesives are permitted (such as the above) on
Colonial Hall Apartment walls. Posters may be hung with thumbtacks and small nails only in
Colonial Hall Apartments.
• The College reserves the right to require the removal of decorations deemed to be inappropriate.
All decorations are subject to the approval of the Residence Director and/or Student Life &
Learning personnel. Decorations may not contain nudity, foul or abusive language, alcohol or
drug references, pornography in any form, or any image or language associated with the occult.
All decorations must be in good taste.
Donations
If a student, family member, or friend of the College desires to donate an item such as a piano or furniture
to the residence halls, they must contact the Director or Assistant Director of Residence Life for
instructions on how to proceed.
Doors, (unauthorized propping, or tampering with)
Exterior, stairway, attic, and any other security doors are not to be propped or tampered with in any way.
Student cooperation in this matter is imperative in ensuring the safety of residents and the residence hall
facilities.
Evacuation
Emergency evacuation procedures are posted in each residence hall room. All fire alarm soundings should
be treated as an actual fire, and the building must be evacuated immediately. During an evacuation,
students should proceed to their residence hall’s designated meeting location. Students who fail to
evacuate during a fire alarm or emergency evacuation will be subject to disciplinary action. After an
evacuation, students are not to return to the building until a Campus Safety Officer or Resident Director
has granted permission, even if all fire alarms have been silenced.
Extension Cords
All extension cords used in the residence halls should be a minimum 14-gauge wire. Only power strips
and multiple outlet adaptors with surge protectors may be used in order to prevent power outages and fire
hazards. Electrical cords should not be run underneath carpets or doors.

74

Fire Equipment, Signs, & Fire Doors
All fire-related equipment, including fire extinguishers, hoses, alarms, exit signs, emergency lights, and
notices are available for the purpose of saving lives. The equipment is to be used for fires only.
Unauthorized use of or tampering with any safety equipment is a serious violation of College policy and
local, state, and federal law and may result in disciplinary action from the College as well as criminal
prosecution. See the Sprinkler System section below for further fire safety information.
Furniture
Each resident student is provided with a bed, mattress, dresser, desk, chair, and closet or wardrobe.
Students will be held accountable for the following standards regarding residence hall furniture usage:
• Furniture is to remain in the room at all times. Residence hall furniture should not be stored in
hallways, hall closets, attics, or other locations within or outside of the residence hall other than
the residence hall room for which it was originally assigned.
• Furniture should be used for the purpose for which it is intended. For example, wardrobe doors
should not be removed and used to construct bookshelves.
• Furniture is not to be disassembled nor be permanently altered in any way.
• Furniture that is not manufactured for stacking may not be stacked. Beds designed for bunking
may not be stacked more than two high. Stadium seating of couches and all other furniture is not
permitted.
• Non-College issued furniture that is added to the room by the student must be in good condition
and fit the room in such a way that the beds, center of the room, and access doors are clear of all
obstructions. Large/Heavy pieces of furniture (Pool tables, Safes, etc.) should be examined by the
RD before entering the residence hall Students are encouraged to use extreme caution in bringing
in outside furniture to ensure that it is free of pests such as bed bugs, cockroaches, fleas, ticks,
etc. Any pests brought in by outside furniture (and/or other belongings) will be removed by the
College at the responsible student(s) expense using what the College determines to be appropriate
methods and/or outside resources to treat and eradicate the problem. Water beds, lofts, or
platforms are not permitted, and shelves may not be placed over beds or access doors.
• All problems with or damage to College-issued furniture should be reported to the student’s
Resident Assistant or Resident Director as soon as possible upon discovery of the concern.
• Should pest (roaches, bed bugs, etc.) be transported into College facilities via student owned
furniture (and/or other belongings) treatment and eradication will be conducted via a Collegeapproved pest control service provider at the full expense of the student(s).
Garbage Removal
Trash receptacles within the room, suite or apartment are to be provided by the residents, and residents
are responsible for removing their own garbage. Garbage disposal sites are located within the vicinity of
each residence hall, and all personal trash must be taken to these sites. A fenced-in dumpster with card
access is located outside the northwest end of the Colonial Hall Apartments for apartment residents’ use.
Failure to properly dispose of garbage, including placing personal trash in common areas such as
bathroom receptacles, hallways or lobby trash cans may result in disciplinary action. See also recycling.
Guest(s) and/or Overnight Guest(s)
Guests are expected to abide by all campus policies. The assigned occupant of a room assumes
responsibility for the actions of his/her guests and any violation of College policy taking place in the
room independent of his/her personal involvement. Guests who fail to adhere to College policies and
expectations are subject to removal from College premises. In addition, guests with vehicles parked on
campus must secure a visitor’s parking pass from Campus Safety upon arrival.
Overnight guests of the same gender are permitted in the College residence halls if they are invited and
accompanied by a resident of the building. Residents are required to register their overnight guests

75

with the College. Adult guests may stay overnight for up to two nights in a row. A guest may stay no
longer than seven nights in any semester. Overnight guests of the opposite gender are not permitted.
Children under the age of eighteen (legal minor) may not stay as overnight guests in the residence halls
without prior written permission from the minor’s parent or legal guardian. See also Babysitting.
An enrolled resident student may not be considered the guest of another student. However, commuter
students will be treated as overnight guests. In the case of inclement weather, a commuter may be granted
permission for a one-night stay with a resident.
Guest(s) may not stay overnight with students who are being housed during a break for which the College
is closed. Guests are also prohibited during breaks and during Intersession.
Out of respect for one’s roommates, invitations to overnight guests should always be made after
consulting with all the residents of the room/suite/apartment where the guest(s) will be staying.
Hallways
Hallways must be kept clear at all times. No shoes, clothes, umbrellas, trash, rugs, furniture or other
personal and/or group items may be left in the hallways at any time. This ensures hallways are navigable
during emergencies and assists our housekeeping staff as they maintain the cleanliness of the residence
halls. Additionally, hall lights are never to be turned off at the breaker box.
Keys & Lockouts
Resident students are provided a key to their room when checking into the residence halls. If a resident is
locked out of his/her room, the residence hall staff can provide access. In the case of a lock-out the
student requiring access to their room should contact his/her Resident Assistant. If the Resident Assistant
is not available, the student should contact his/her Resident Director. If the Resident Director is
unreachable then the student should contact Campus Safety. Please note a student may be charged if
he/she has made repeated requests to be let into his/her room.
Resident students are responsible for their residence hall rooms and the activities that take place in them.
As a result, residents are encouraged to make every effort to ensure that their rooms are locked when they
are out of the room and to have their room key on them at all times.
Any loss of a key should be reported immediately to the Resident Director. For lost keys, a charge will be
assessed to the student account for a Dorm Lock Replacement fee. For damaged keys, a charge will be
assessed to the student account for a Dorm Key Replacement fee. At the end of the year or upon
withdrawal, unreturned keys will be considered as lost and will be subject to the appropriate Dorm Lock
Replacement fee. All fees are listed in the Student Accounts: Billing and Payments section under
Expenses. Duplication of keys is prohibited.
Laundry Facilities
Laundry facilities are available in all traditional residence halls and service is free of charge. These
laundry machines are owned and managed by ASI Campus Laundry Solutions. Service issues with this
equipment should be immediately reported to your Resident Director since laundry equipment can
typically be handled in one business day. Please note: the washing machines require high-efficiency
detergent.
Lobby and Public Areas
The use of lobbies and public areas in the residence halls for studying, recreation, or group meetings is
encouraged. Public areas include, but are not limited to lobbies, lobby bathrooms, and study areas. To
ensure that these spaces are an asset to the entire residence hall:

76

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Furniture is provided in residence hall public areas for the use of all residents in the building.
removal of furnishings from these public areas is prohibited and will be considered theft.
Televisions are located in many common areas. Residents are encouraged to show respect for the
members of their community by avoiding the public viewing of content that may be considered
offensive and inconsistent with the College’s community standards in these areas. Students who
rent or own films should abide by the Federal standards with regard to the public showing of such
films. Published guidelines are available in the Student Life and Learning Office.
Residents are asked to show respect to College housekeeping staff by assisting staff in keeping
public areas clean and by returning furniture to its original location after use.
Lobbies in the women’s residence halls and Memorial Hall are open to all students from 9:00
a.m.-12:00 a.m. seven days a week. Ketler Rec will be open 24 hours, unless otherwise specified.
South Rec will be open until midnight.
No food or drink is permitted in South Lobby due to the formal furnishings and the desire to
maintain the traditional atmosphere of the area.
Out of respect for members of our community, sleeping in residence hall lounges is prohibited.
See also Public Display of Affection

Lofts
Self-constructed or purchased lofts are not permitted in the residence halls. College-provided loft
equipment is only available in certain residence halls. Consult your Resident Director with further
questions.
Maintenance and Housekeeping
Grove City College makes every effort to keep its facilities in good condition. Housekeeping and
Maintenance staff work in every residence hall to keep the public areas clean and in working order.
Residents are responsible for the cleanliness of their individual rooms and apartments and are expected to
treat residence hall facilities and furniture with the utmost care. Maintenance and Housekeeping requests
need to be submitted using the Student Work Order Request form on my.GCC or via the QR code in your
room. Please do not make direct requests to Operations.
Please note that maintenance and housekeeping personnel (often of the opposite gender) may enter the
residence halls and resident rooms as early as 9:00 a.m. In the case of a facilities emergency, they may
need access prior to this time. Please plan accordingly. Maintenance and Housekeeping reserve the right
to enter student’s rooms to complete work order requests, whether or not a student is present in the room.
If a student is present, Maintenance and Housekeeping will confirm with the student that completing the
work order at that time works for the student and, if not, arrange for a different time if need be.
Maintenance and Housekeeping workers are permitted to enter residence halls common areas prior to 9am
but will not enter living areas or residential hallways prior to 9 a.m. unless it is an emergency.
Medical Transportation
Transport to medical appointments cannot be the responsibility of the College or the Residence Life team.
Students are encouraged to arrange transportation for routine medical appointments with Superior
Ambulance Services (724-458-5350). Superior provides non-emergency transportation via van shuttle at a
minimal fee. Arrangements must be made at least 24 hours in advance. Students may also want to contact
Tina’s Taxi – 724-992-3360 for possible taxi services . Those facing extreme circumstances may contact
the Student Life and Learning Office for additional help.
Please note: Students should call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 in the event of a medical emergency.
While Campus Safety may transport a student to the Grove City Medical Center or the Zerbe Health
Center, the College’s default for medical emergencies is Superior Ambulance Services.
Noise

77

Because of the close proximity of the residence halls, noise outside the halls must be maintained at a
reasonable level. For this reason, loud music (including stereo speakers in room windows), the playing of
musical instruments, and other noise (including sports activities) are not permitted in the residential areas,
unless special permission is granted by the Resident Director. (For more information regarding noise in
the residence halls please see the above section entitled “Courtesy & Quiet Hours”).
Open Hours
Open hours are the opportunity for members of the opposite gender to visit individuals’ rooms in
accordance with the policies and hours established by the Office of Student Life & Learning. Only invited
guests are permitted in the residence halls. At no other times are members of the opposite gender
permitted beyond the lobby of any residence hall unless they have permission from the Resident Director.
Visitors of the opposite gender must sign onto the floor they are visiting using Open Hours Log sheets
located on each floor of the residence halls. Visiting students must include the name of their student host
and the student’s host’s room number. When leaving the floor, the visitor must also sign out using the
same log sheet they signed in on. This is important since some floors have multiple log sheet locations.
After signing in, currently enrolled student visitors are free to visit multiple rooms on the same floor as
long as their presence is welcomed by the residing student(s) and as long as they have signed into the
floor upon entering and sign out upon leaving.
Guests (visitors who are not currently enrolled students) must sign in in the same manner as visiting GCC
students but must indicate they are non-GCC students on the sign in sheet. Additionally, guests must
remain in the room they have indicated on the sign in sheet. Should they desire to visit another room they
must first sign out of the first room and into the second. Guests must also be escorted through the building
by their hosts or hostesses at all times, including between rooms. Finally, guests must sign-in and sign-out
on this same Open Hours Log.
At no time are guests of the opposite gender permitted to use hall bathrooms during Open Hours but may
instead use lobby bathrooms.
In order to promote a safe and welcoming atmosphere, doors to rooms where visitors of the opposite
gender are present must remain open to a width of at least four inches (shoe in the door). In suite areas,
doors to the suite hallways, as well as the door to the room, must remain open. A substantive light other
than the TV must be on in the room. It is further expected that men and women will remain fully clothed
and act in a way that shows respect for themselves and others.
Open hours in traditional residence halls:
Wednesday
7 p.m.-10 p.m.
Friday
7 p.m.-12 a.m. (midnight)
Saturday
1 p.m.-12 a.m. (midnight)
Sunday
1 p.m.- 10 p.m.
Open hours in Colonial Hall Apartments are different from the rest of campus. See the “Colonial Hall
Apartment Life” below.
Note: Permission to have non-student family members of the opposite gender in one’s room during nonvisitation hours should be sought from your Resident Director in advance. Failure to do so may result in
the Resident Director being unavailable and consequently, no authorization for such visitation.
Pets
No pets, other than fish in an aquarium no larger than ten gallons, may be kept in the residence halls.

78

Pranking and Vandalism
Students should respect the property of the college and of fellow students at all times. It is important that
residence halls be welcoming and safe spaces for students. Students are strongly encouraged to be
mindful of the impact of their decisions on their fellow students and on the College staff in Residence
Life, Housekeeping and Operations. Vandalism under any circumstances is unacceptable. If vandalism or
pranking cause damage(s) to college property or requires labor for cleaning, the students involved will be
charged for labor and replacement or repair costs. When deemed necessary, additional sanctions may be
applied through the student conduct process. In some instances where the individual(s) involved is not
known, a hall or building may collectively be held responsible.
Public Displays of Affection
Men and women on campus should act in a way that shows respect and honor toward each other and
toward those around them. If students are acting in a manner that is not in accordance with Christian
standards or that is making others uncomfortable such that the lobby’s public nature is threatened or
disrupted or if there is concern for the behavior taking place, College personnel may ask them to stop or
leave a particular area. The same applies in a student’s room.
Recreation
Lawns outside of the residence halls may be used for casual play by small groups of students. Students
must wear shoes without cleats when playing on residence hall lawns. Only wiffleballs should be used in
the immediate area surrounding the residence halls. Tennis balls, baseballs, handballs, etc., are not
appropriate for residence hall lawn play. Golf is not to be played on College property. Students are
encouraged to use the intramural playing fields for recreational purposes. Teams and large groups are
required to use the intramural playing fields or other approved fields. Again, where evidence exists that
casual play is causing damage to the lawns or residence halls, students may be asked not to use those
areas, for a period of time or permanently in order to restore the lawns.
Recycling
Recycling receptacles are available in each residence hall for student use. Although recycling is not
mandatory, it is strongly encouraged. Each residence hall follows its own procedure regarding the
emptying of recycling receptacles on a weekly basis. If you would like to assist in our recycling efforts,
please contact your Resident Director.
Renter’s Insurance
The College strongly encourages every student to carry insurance protection against loss and/or damage
to personal property. The College cannot be held responsible for loss of the personal property of residence
hall students due to theft, fire, disruptions to electrical service, HVAC or plumbing malfunctions,
naturally occurring catastrophes such as wind, rain and/or flooding, or if the negligence or willful conduct
causing the loss is that of another student and/or another individual not acting as an employee of and/or
without specific authority of the College.
Please note that occupancy of a College-owned residence does not establish a landlord-tenant relationship
between the student and Grove City College. Residents are encouraged to check with their parents
regarding their homeowner’s policies and insurance coverage.
Room Access, Inspections and Searches
Although the College values a student’s right to privacy, in an effort to maintain an educational
atmosphere, safe and effective living conditions, and in furtherance of the College’s mission, the College
reserves the right to enter any residence hall room, suite, apartment, or other related facility for the
purposes of periodic inspection, repair or routine maintenance, health or safety concern, or where there is
a reason to believe that College policy is being violated.

79

Please note: during Thanksgiving, Christmas, Spring/or Easter breaks, Residence Life staff will conduct
routine health and safety inspections of all residence hall rooms. In addition, periodic health and safety
inspections may be done in all first year students residence hall rooms. Please note that the College
reserves the right to inspect student refrigerators at any time due to the need to maintain clean and healthy
living conditions for all residents.
If a concern exists that a College policy violation is taking place, the College reserves the right to inspect
and search any room on campus at any time with or without the presence or knowledge of the students
living in the room. An inspection or search includes all areas of the room and/or apartment, including
equipment within the premises, such as computers and their contents, even if the equipment is not owned
by the College.
If a College official finds any improper or illegal material, items, and/or persons within the room during
the course of a search, the official will remove such items and/or persons from the room and make a full
report to the Student Life & Learning Office.
Sales & Solicitation
To protect each student’s right to privacy in our residence halls, door-to-door sales and/or solicitation by
students and/or outsiders are strictly prohibited. Advertising of private products by students is permitted
only with approval from the Resident Director and only in appropriate locations as time and space permit.
Students who observe sales and/or solicitation occurring should contact a Residence Life staff member or
Campus Safety at 724-458-2111.
Smoking
Smoking and the use of e-cigarettes (vaping) are not permitted in the Residence Halls. Those who smoke
outdoors are encouraged to be considerate of those entering and exiting Residence Hall buildings and are
asked to avoid blocking building access. Smokers are also asked to refrain from smoking directly outside
of doors and windows and to be considerate of noise levels at night. Finally, smokers may be asked to
move further away from the building at any time. In order to maintain the beauty of the campus,
receptacles have been placed strategically and smokers are asked to dispose of tobacco waste
appropriately.
Sports in the Hall
For safety, noise and potential damage or injury reasons, students are not permitted to engage in sports in
the hallways. Additionally, scooters, skateboards and rollerblades are not to be used inside the residence
halls. Students who cause damage to college property due to sports being played in or around residence
halls could be charged accordingly.
Sprinkler System
Objects may not be hung from a sprinkler head or its casing. Obstructing sprinkler heads or pipes in any
way may result in a $100.00 fine for each violation. Carelessly or negligently activating a sprinkler head
may result in disciplinary action and damage costs. Since sprinkler systems have possible bacterial
contamination, students coming into contact with water from the sprinkler system should report to Zerbe
Health Center immediately.
Storage
Several residence halls have storage areas for student use. Only approved items such as luggage and
plastic bins with lids may be stored in these areas. So that all residents may take advantage of storage
spaces, students are limited to two items in a storage area unless otherwise posted; any additional items
must be approved by the Resident Director. All stored items must be properly identified with the owner’s
name and room number. Other stipulations on storage may be put in place by the Resident Director.

80

Please contact your Resident Director if you have questions regarding availability of storage and/or
proper usage of such space.
The College does not store students’ personal belongings over the summer break. However, there are
several local storage companies that will provide reasonable rates for students who desire to store their
personal belongings locally during the summer months.
At the conclusion of the academic year, any items left behind will be considered abandoned. Students will
have approximately two weeks from the date of graduation to claim and retrieve personal items left
behind at check-out. Items determined to be of appropriate quality will be auctioned off (with proceeds
going to on-campus groups and/or charities) or donated to local charities. All other items will be
disposed of by the College.
Unattended Belongings
Any personal property left unattended in the common spaces of the residence halls including, (but not
limited to), hallways, lobbies, lounges, and areas immediately outside of residence hall rooms will be
considered abandoned and will be collected and taken to the College “Lost & Found” located in the
Campus Safety Office or other designated location determined by the Resident Director of that building.
Personal property left in the residence halls after the halls have closed for the academic year will be held
for approximately two weeks after graduation before it is disposed of or donated to local charities. If you
believe you left items behind, you should immediately contact your Resident Director to arrange to pick
up the item if it was not already donated.
Unauthorized Persons
Residents play a vital role in the safety of the residence halls. Residents should not provide unauthorized
or unknown persons access to the residence halls for any reason. All guests are to be escorted by their
host/hostess. All unknown, unescorted visitors should be directed to the Campus Safety Office.
Withdrawing
A student who finds it necessary to withdraw from the College before the end of a semester must contact
the Registrar’s Office, Buhl Library ground floor. Upon completion of the withdrawal process, the
withdrawing student should contact his/her Resident Director to set up an appointment to check out of the
residence hall. Failure to check out of the residence hall in an appropriate and timely manner will result in
an improper check out charge being assessed to the student’s account. Outstanding charges on a student’s
account may impact a student’s ability to return or have his/her transcript sent to another institution.
Windows & Screens
Window screens are to remain securely attached to room windows as designed, and removal will result in
receipt of disciplinary action. Throwing, shooting, spraying, or hanging any object out of a window is
strictly prohibited. Individuals may not enter or exit residence hall rooms through windows for any reason
other than emergency evacuation. Individuals should never enter or exit residence hall rooms through
windows at any time. For the safety and security of all residents, ground floor and first floor residents
should take extra care in locking their windows when rooms are not occupied.
COLONIAL HALL APARTMENT LIFE
The Colonial Hall Apartments are a living-learning community that is designed to equip students to be
leaders and responsible citizens as they transition from college to their post-college experience. The
apartment community is built upon a system of responsible freedom, peer accountability, and
commitment to the missions of the Colonial Hall Apartments and Grove City College.

81

Apartment residents agree to play an active role in developing this community by participating in
transitional life skills programs, abiding by all Residence Life and campus policies as outlined in The
Crimson, and by encouraging other residents in their personal and collective growth.
Apartment Upkeep & Cleaning
As part of preparing students for their post-college experience, apartment residents are expected to
maintain and clean their own apartments. The following is a non-exhaustive list of guidelines for
apartment upkeep & cleaning:
Items and areas to clean:
• Kitchen: stove (including drip pans), oven, refrigerator, dishwasher, floor, counter tops, sink, and
cabinets.
• Living Room: furniture, floor, couches/chairs, windows
• Bedrooms: furniture, floor, windows
• Bathroom: sink, shower, toilet, floor, mirrors
• Washer/Dryer
• All carpets
Hanging wall decorations
Only white sticky tack and 3M quick release command strips are to be used to hang decorations in
Colonial Hall. Those found to have used nails will be instructed to remove them immediately and
assessed a fine for damages.
Door Access/Security
All Colonial residents and guests must enter the building through the main lobby (middle doors) and are
not permitted to open side exits (now for emergency use only) for other students and/or visitors.
Laundry
As a courtesy to our Colonial residents, laundry is provided free of charge in each apartment. Laundry
usage is limited to residents. Non-residents are not permitted to use laundry facilities in Colonial Hall.
Colonial Open Hours
Open hours are the opportunity for members of the opposite gender to visit individuals’ apartments in
accordance with the policies and hours established by the Office of Student Life & Learning. Only
invited guests are permitted in the apartments.
A visiting student of the opposite gender who is currently enrolled at the College must sign into the floor
that they are visiting on the provided Open Hours Log sheets located on each floor of the residence halls.
When leaving, the visitor must also sign out using the same log sheet they signed in on. This is important
since some floors have multiple log sheet locations. After signing in, currently enrolled student visitors
are free to visit multiple apartments on that particular floor as long as their presence is welcomed by the
residing student(s) and as long as they have signed into the floor upon entering and sign out upon leaving.
Guests (visitors who are not currently enrolled students) need to enter through the lobby and must be
escorted through the building by their hosts or hostesses at all times. Guests must sign in and out of the
floor they are visiting and need to specify on the Open Hours Log which particular apartment they are
visiting and the name of their host/hostess.
At no time are guests of the opposite gender permitted to use apartment bathrooms during Open Hours
but may instead use lobby bathrooms.

82

Doors of suites in which visitors are present must remain open at least 4 inches (shoe in the door). Guests
of the opposite gender must remain in the common areas of the apartment (living room and kitchen);
individual bedrooms and bathrooms are off-limits. A light other than the TV must be on in the common
area of the apartment at all times while entertaining guests.
Open Hours in Colonial Hall:
• Monday – Thursday
5 p.m. – 10 p.m.
• Friday
5 p.m. – 12 a.m. (midnight)
• Saturday
1 p.m. – 12 a.m. (midnight)
• Sunday
1 p.m. – 10 p.m.
Meal Plans Available to Colonial Residents:
Colonial Hall residents are eligible to purchase blocks of meals in increments of 25 ($240), 50 ($465),
and 75 ($675) meals. They may also use Crimson cash, credit or cash at eateries.
Parking for Colonial Residents
There is adequate parking provided on the lower campus for each apartment resident. Residents will be
issued a parking pass specific to Colonial Hall. Colonial Residents are permitted to park in the lot behind
the Field House, as well as the lot situated across the street from the Cunningham House. They will also
be permitted to park in either student or commuter parking on upper campus. To obtain zoning variances
in order to build the Colonial Hall Apartments, the College was required to comply with the following
parking requirements for residents of Colonial Hall: “In registering vehicles of students who will reside at
the Colonial Hall Apartments, Grove City College shall require as part of its registration policy that no
such vehicle shall be parked upon any public street or in any public parking lot within 1,000 feet of the
Colonial Hall Apartments.” This restriction encompasses all of the parking belonging to East Main
Church, Covenant OPC Church, PNC Bank and behind Grace United Methodist Church to the north, and
to Elm Street (just beyond Country Fair and including the parking lot behind College View Towers) to the
west. Please especially refrain from utilizing Tower Presbyterian Church’s small lot. It also includes
parking on South Broad Street and College Avenue immediately adjacent to the lower campus.
Accordingly, Colonial Hall residents who park in this restricted area may be fined and those who are
repeat violators of parking in this restricted area may be subject to loss of their vehicle privileges at Grove
City College. Please see details regarding Colonial parking in “Campus Safety” section.
Room Changes
If you desire to change your room assignment (ex. bedroom A to B) permission must be sought and
received from your Resident Director prior to making changes. Failure to do so could result in being
charged and having to move back to your original room.
GROUP HOUSING
Grove City College has a rich history of Greek Life and Independent Housing Groups. Students have the
opportunity to join one of the 8 local women’s sororities, 10 local men’s fraternities and 9 independent
men’s housing groups. These communities are often committed to specific goals and philanthropic
activities and are evaluated on a yearly basis to ensure alignment with the educational objectives of the
College. Areas of assessment include scholarship, spiritual and moral development, service and
philanthropy, campus involvement, leadership, and fulfillment of the organization’s mission and purpose.
At the discretion of the College, sororities, fraternities, and men’s housing groups may be granted the
privilege of living together in a specific section of a residence hall.
Community Living Privilege
Community Living Privilege (CLP) is the term used to refer to traditional block housing available to
fraternities, sororities, and men’s housing groups. Because living together as a group is a privilege, the

83

Office of Student Life and Learning oversees a regular evaluation process through which groups
demonstrate alignment with the College’s mission and expectations. Organizations that successfully
complete this process are then given the privilege of living together in community without needing to
participate in individual room draw. This evaluation process takes place bi-annually, with CLP groups
completing annual block housing submissions in advance of the room selection process.
Groups granted community living privileges are generally eligible to live together in block housing.
• However, they must have at least ten members committed to living together during the coming
year in order to receive this privilege.
o Note: a group with only ten active members may have up to ONE member serving as an
RA, studying abroad, completing a remote internship, or absent from the hall for another
academic reason (reducing the number of active members on the block to no less than
nine) and still receive block housing privileges.
• Any fraternity, sorority, and housing group that fails to meet this minimum block size will lose
the ability to participate in block housing and its members will need secure housing through room
draw.
• When a CLP group fails to meet this membership requirement for a second consecutive year, its
members will again need to participate in individual room draw and the group’s floor will subject
to permanent loss.
o Should there be interest in the floor, the Assistant Dean of Student Life will conduct a
CLP floor lottery involving all interested groups.
 Those groups desiring to participate will first need to make their floors available
for selection in the lottery.
 The Assistant Dean of Students will then assign selection order via a random
drawing.
 Once the order is determined, CLP groups will select housing with the unselected
location being used for independent students.
 The CLP group that has lost its block may apply for restored block housing in as
soon as one year, but only after achieving the ten-student minimum.
• This request should be submitted to the Assistant Dean of Students who
will give deference to the group’s investment in and positive influence
on the build in which they live and the wider campus community.
• If granted the group will populate the floor left unoccupied as a result of
the lottery.
• Should another same gender CLP group be in the second year of failed
membership, the group approved after reapplying can request a CLP
lottery, thus moving to another hall.
• CLP groups may not relocate to an independent hall.
• Each CLP group may be permitted to have one independent OR one social member living in its
block. This person must live in a room with a member of the group and is not permitted to live in
a single. This person does not count as one of the ten members the group must have in order to
receive block housing privileges. Examples of non-active members are, but not limited to social,
pref. bids, etc.
CLP groups must also meet the following guidelines and expectations:
• All group memorabilia including, but not limited to composites, mascots, paddles, etc., must be
kept within the designated block of rooms, and must be in alignment with College standards and
expectations.
• CLP groups wishing to hang letters on the exterior of the building via a large banner during
Homecoming may do so as long as the banner is hung no earlier than the Monday before

84

•

•

•
•

•

Homecoming and removed no later than the Monday following Homecoming. Signs must be
hung in a safe and secure manner and removed immediately following Homecoming. A fine of
$50 will be assessed for each day the sign remains beyond the Monday deadline.
Groups wishing to display letters on the exterior of the building via a fabricated homecoming sign
must inspect the sign for safety and hang it in a safe and secure manner. They should be hung no
earlier than the Monday before Homecoming and removed no later than the Monday following
Homecoming. A fine of $50 will be assessed for each day the sign remains beyond the Monday
deadline.
The College will not be responsible for providing storage (during the academic year or summer
months) for group memorabilia and other items. Groups are responsible for finding adequate offcampus storage locations. Group memorabilia and other items are not permitted to be stored in
residence hall attics, hallways, or stairwells. At the discretion of the College, limited space may
be available for group storage on campus.
For safety purposes, floor hallways must be kept clear at all times.
The addition of new CLP groups is simply unfeasible given the large number of groups already
found on campus (27). It is also our belief that the physical constraints of our residence halls
would make the addition of another CLP group detrimental to the residential experience of our
independent student population.
The College reserves the right to place independent students and overflow CLP members into
spaces that are not full based on the College’s housing needs.

Please note: individual students living within a CLP housing section will be held responsible for their
personal conduct. If irresponsible conduct involves sufficient numbers of the students in widespread
damage or disruption, group sanctions may be levied. As a general rule, the first offense will carry, at
minimum, a formal warning from the Student Life & Learning Office, and any subsequent violations
could result in the loss of CLP group housing privileges or a change in group or individual housing
assignments.
STUDENT ACCOUNTS: BILLING AND PAYMENTS
Office Location: Crawford Hall, Second floor
Phone: (724) 458-2209
Fax: (724) 450-1554
Email: studentaccounts@gcc.edu
The College reserves the right to adjust its charges prior to the beginning of any semester, although every
effort is made to maintain its stated charges throughout the academic year.
EXPENSES — 2024-2025
Matriculation Fee (non-refundable) ......................................................... 100.00
Matriculation Deposit .............................................................................. 150.00
Fall and Spring Semester Charges – Undergraduate Students:
Full time:
Tuition, 12 to 18 credit hours .......................................... $ 10,850.00
Tuition, each hour over 18 credit hours ................................... 550.00
Food and Housing, Residence halls, 21 meals per week ....... 6115.00
Colonial Hall Apartments – Housing Only .......................... 5,715.00
Part time, per credit hour ................................................................... 705.00
Dual Enrollment Program, per credit hour ........................................ 210.00

85

Adult Education (audit only), per credit hour...................................... 85.00
May/January Intersession and Winter/Summer Online Charges:
Undergraduate Student:
Tuition, per credit hour ......................................................... $ 455.00
Non-Degree Seeking student, per credit hour.......................... 455.00
Dual Enrollment Program student, per credit hour .................. 210.00
Fees for Special Services:
Prevention and Care of Injuries (EXER 251) ...................................... 40.00
Degree Apostille .................................................................................. 25.00
Dorm Key Replacement (damaged key) ……………………........... ..50.00
Dorm Lock Replacement (lost or unreturned key).…… ................... 100.00
Early Arrival Fee (per day) …………………………………… ......... 75.00
Microsoft Certification Fee (MNGT 110) ........................................... 90.00
Housing Deposit ................................................................................ 200.00
ID Card Replacement Fee ………………………………......... ……..25.00
Independent Research (270/370/470 per approved application) ....... 300.00
Independent Study (260/360/460 per approved application)............. 300.00
Internship Fee (per approved application) ......................................... 300.00
Laboratory Materials Fee (per course – see Bulletin (Aca policies) 150.00
Late Payment Fee (monthly assessment) 1% of balance due………………
.............................................................maximum $150.00, minimum 25.00
Mailbox Key Replacement …………………………………… ........ 25.00
Music Group Class (Guitar, Organ, Piano and Voice) ...................... 150.00
Music Private Lesson (per half-hour, per week) ............................... 435.00
Official Transcript (PDF) ...................................................................... 7.65
Online Materials Fee .......................................................... varies by course
Parking Permit Fee (annual rate) ....................................................... 150.00
Print Making, Sculpture, Ceramics Materials Fee............................. 150.00
Replacement Diploma ......................................................................... 25.00
Returned Check Fee ............................................................................ 25.00
Returned Electronic Check Fee ........................................................... 30.00
Student Health Insurance (annual rate) .......................................... 2,059.00
Study Abroad Fee (Abroad 300-fall or spring semesters only) ........ 300.00
Technology Fee (Part-time undergraduate students) ......................... 300.00
Travel Course Participant Fee (non-credit participation) .................. 500.00
Dining Options (available only to Colonial Hall residents, Commuters,
and Off-campus students)
25 Meals ......................................................................................... 240.00
50 Meals ......................................................................................... 465.00
75 Meals ......................................................................................... 675.00
*For certain courses, e-books or other online resources will be assigned through a program called
Inclusive Access. By all students participating in the program, the cost is significantly reduced for
everyone. These materials will be charged to the student account as an Online Materials Fee.
Student Account
The student account reflects all tuition, food and housing, course fees and other charges. Payments and
financial aid (scholarships and loans) are recorded as credits that reduce the student account balance. The
College considers the student financially responsible for his/her student account. Accordingly, all

86

correspondence is addressed to the student and will be sent to the student’s GCC email address. If the
student is receiving financial assistance from a parent or guardian, it is the student’s responsibility to
forward all correspondence regarding the student account. The College utilizes electronic student account
billing through the MyGCC portal. Notification is made to the student’s GCC email address that the
Student Account Statement is ready to be viewed online on MyGCC at least three weeks before the
semester payment deadline.
Students are required to complete an Annual Financial Responsibility Agreement and Health Insurance
Submission Form. The form will require students to provide a plan for payment, be advised of the
payment deadlines, provide health insurance status/information (see additional information in the Health
Insurance section), and review financial terms and conditions of being enrolled at GCC. This form can
be found on the MyGCC student portal on the Financial tab under Forms.
All full-time students (12 credits or more) must annually demonstrate health insurance coverage in order
to attend Grove City College. For those students covered under an alternative insurance plan (via a parent,
guardian, etc.), health insurance information must be provided to the College using the Annual Financial
Responsibility Agreement and Health Insurance Submission Form noted above. For those students
without alternative coverage, the College offers a Student Health Insurance Plan. The cost of annual
coverage for 2024-2025 is $2,059.00, which runs from August 15, 2024 to August 14, 2025. For students
enrolling mid-year the cost will be prorated for the coverage period. The College does not retain or
benefit from any portion of the premium, and students are welcome to purchase comparable insurance
elsewhere should they desire. Students must actively attend classes for at least the first 31 days after the
date for which coverage is purchased.
If a student loses coverage mid-year under their original plan, they may qualify for a Qualifying Life
Event upon proof of involuntary loss of coverage within 30 days of losing coverage. The student should
contact the Student Accounts Office immediately upon loss of coverage to determine if they are eligible
for mid-year enrollment in the College plan. Part-time undergraduate students (11 hours or less) and all
graduate students are not eligible to purchase the College plan.
Online Student Account Access
Students can log into their MyGCC account at https://my.gcc.edu/ics using their student ID number and
password. Students then navigate to the Financial tab to view announcements and account statements,
make payments and Crimson Cash deposits, and submit the Annual Financial Responsibility Agreement
and Health Insurance Submission Form. To view the student account statement, the student will need to
click on Course and Fee Statement, Generate my Course and Fee Statement, and then View my Course
and Fee Statement.
Payment Deadlines and Policy on Payment
Payment for student account charges is due according to the following schedule:
Fall Semester
Winter Online Session
Spring Semester
Housing Deposits
Early Summer Online Session (commencing in June)
Summer Session (commencing in July)

August 1, 2024
December 17, 2024
January 6, 2025
Early March (To be announced)
June 2, 2025
July 1, 2025

Winter and May Travel Terms will have payment schedules in advance of the travel course taking place.
Payment deadlines will be communicated at the time of enrollment.

87

Charges other than tuition and food and housing that are assessed during the semester, such as security
fines, library fines, and computer repairs, etc. are due and payable within 10 days of initial assessment. If
you are unable to pay your account in full prior to the payment deadline, contact the Student Accounts
Office at 724-458-2209 or visit the Financial Services Office on the second floor of Crawford Hall to
discuss your situation before the payment deadline.
In no case will a student be permitted to register for any semester if he/she has unpaid charges on the
student account. Students are not officially registered until tuition, food and housing and all other required
fees are paid in full. The College reserves the right to withdraw a student from classes and dismiss
him/her if the account balance is not paid in full by the payment deadline.
Late Payment fees of 1% of the balance due (maximum of $150 and minimum of $25) will be charged for
any unpaid balance on a student’s account each month. In no case will a student receive grades,
transcripts, or diplomas during any period in which he/she has any unpaid student account balance.
The Student Accounts Office may grant a student an extension beyond the semester payment deadline for
extenuating circumstances. However, in such cases the student account will still be subject to a late
payment fee. The Student Accounts Office may waive this initial late fee for transfer students who are
accepted within a three-week period prior to the first day of class and for students who have been awarded
state grants, outside scholarships and loans for which the Financial Aid Office has received written
notification from the funding body but has not yet received funds.
Late payment fees of $40 per month will be charged for any unpaid balance in a student’s account on the
1st business day of each month. In no case will a student receive grades, transcripts or diplomas during
any period in which he/she has any unpaid student account balance.
All outstanding debts to the College remaining unpaid after 30 days from billing may be subject to all
legal collection costs, fees and practices.
Refunds
Students planning to withdraw or transfer from Grove City College must immediately contact the
Enrollment Coordinator by emailing transfers@gcc.edu or calling (724) 458-2069 to officially withdraw.
The official withdrawal date is determined by the submission of completed withdrawal paperwork to the
Enrollment Coordinator. Students residing in the Residence Halls must complete an official check-out
with the Resident Director. See the Academic Policies section for further details on withdrawal.
Voluntary Withdrawal – Tuition Charges
A student who voluntarily withdraws from the College may be refunded a portion of the tuition charges
based on the official withdrawal date in accordance with the refund schedule for the applicable term:
Fall or Spring Semester (complete withdrawal from all courses):
Withdrawal prior to matriculation (first day of classes) .......................... 100% refund
Withdrawal within seven calendar days after first day of classes ........... 75% refund
Withdrawal within fourteen calendar days after first day of classes ...... 50% refund
Withdrawal within twenty-one calendar days after first day of classes .. 25% refund
Withdrawal twenty-two or more calendar days after first day of classes No refund

88

Fall or Spring Semester (remaining enrolled on other courses; tuition rates still apply based on remaining
hours):
Drop prior to first day of classes……100% refund
Drop before the end of the drop/add period…..100% refund
Withdrawal after the drop/add period…..No refund
January or May Travel Term:
Drop prior to the first day of classes….100% refund
Drop before the end of the drop/add period…..100% refund
Withdrawal after the drop/add period…..No refund
Winter or Summer Online Session:
Drop before the first day of classes ......................................................... 100% refund
Drop before the end of the drop/add period ............................................ 75% refund
Withdrawal after the drop/add period...................................................... No refund
Voluntary Withdrawal – Housing Charges
A student who voluntarily withdraws from the College may be refunded a portion of the housing charges
based on the official check-out date from the residence hall in accordance with the refund schedule for the
applicable term:
Fall or Spring Semester:
Withdrawal prior to first day of classes ................................................... 100% refund
Withdrawal within seven calendar days after first day of classes ........... 75% refund
Withdrawal within fourteen calendar days after first day of classes ....... 50% refund
Withdrawal within twenty-one calendar days after first day of classes .. 25% refund
Withdrawal twenty-two or more calendar days after first day of classes No refund
Food and housing are not available during the Winter and Summer online sessions.
Voluntary Withdrawal – Food Charges
A student who voluntarily withdraws from the College may be refunded a prorated portion of the food
charge, which covers the cost of meals, based on the official checkout date from an uppercampus residence hall. Students not residing on upper campus who purchased a dining option may be
refunded the cost of the unused meals on the option purchased.
Voluntary Withdrawal – Travel Course
A student who voluntarily withdraws from an off-campus travel course, during any academic term, will
be eligible for a tuition refund as described herein; however, the cost of transportation or other program
expenses incurred on behalf of the student prior to the withdrawal will be deducted from any refund of the
program charges.
Medical/Military Withdrawal
A student who must withdraw from Grove City College upon a physician's written recommendation or
who is a military reservist and is called to active military duty will be refunded a prorated portion of
tuition based on the number of days in attendance. The food and housing charges will also be refunded on
a prorated basis according to the official check out date from the residence hall. These prorated refunds
will be granted for medical/military withdrawal regardless of the time of withdrawal during the semester.
Written documentation supporting the physician’s recommendation must be received by the Student Life
& Learning Office within two weeks of a medical withdrawal.

89

Housing Deposits
Each spring, students who have indicated their intent to reside on campus the following fall semester will
be charged a housing deposit. The housing deposit is not an increase in the cost of food and housing;
rather, the amount of the deposit is later reflected as a reduction to the amount due on the student’s
statement of charges for the upcoming fall semester. This deposit is refundable if the student notifies the
College of his/her withdrawal or changes his/her housing status to non-resident by June 30th. The deposit
is non-refundable if notification is made on July 1st or later.
Additional Refund Details
The matriculation deposit is refunded upon voluntary withdrawal or after graduation. No refund of any
kind is made when a student is suspended or dismissed from the College, including, but not limited to,
tuition and course fees, food and housing, application and matriculation fees and deposits.
The guidelines noted above for tuition will also be used to refund financial aid to the provider of the aid
unless specified otherwise by the donor. In the event the student has received a student loan during the
current term, all current Grove City College charges will be paid and any remaining credit balance, up to
the loan amount, will be used to repay the student loan prior to any refund to the student.
Students who request and are approved to move into the residence halls after the start of a semester will
be charged a prorated amount of the food and housing charge based on the remaining days of the semester
starting with the official move in date as arranged with and confirmed by the Student Life & Learning
Office.
Accepted Forms of Payment
Electronic check: Electronic check (e-check) payments may be made by using your bank’s nine-digit
routing number and checking account number. There is no charge to make an e-check payment; the
payment is simply withdrawn from your checking account the following business day.
Credit/debit cards: Credit/debit card payments may also be made; however, a convenience fee does
apply. This convenience fee goes directly to Transact CASHNet, a third-party payment processing
company, and does not benefit the College). Credit/debit cards can only be accepted as outlined below
and cannot be processed in the Student Accounts Office or over the phone.
To make either an e-check or credit/debit card payment:
• Log into MyGCC at https://my.gcc.edu/ics using your student ID number and password
• Select the Financial tab
• Under My Account Info, select Go to CASHNet
• Choose Student Account Payment and continue the checkout process
The payment will be processed by CASHNet and will be posted to your student account.
Cash, check or money order: Cash, check, or money orders are accepted at the Student Accounts
window, 2nd floor of Crawford Hall. If you wish to mail payment, please include a mailing payment form
which can be found on the MyGCC student portal under Financial. Checks should be payable to Grove
City College, include the student’s name and ID number, and mailed to:
Student Accounts, Grove City College, 100 Campus Drive, Grove City, PA 16127
Refunds and Overpayments
Refunds of overpayments on your student account may be requested by contacting
studentaccounts@gcc.edu. All estimated financial aid credits, such as scholarships, state grants or student
loans, must be received by the College before a full refund of your account can be issued. If you have an

90

estimated credit on your account and you need money to purchase books, you may request up to $500.00
until all your estimated credits are received. Refunds will not be issued until the first day of classes.
Refunds can be issued via check, direct deposit, or can be placed on your Crimson Cash Account. Refund
checks will be made payable to the student and /or a parent only. Direct Deposit is available to students
who are enrolled via Payroll or by completing a direct deposit form obtained by emailing
studentaccounts@gcc.edu.
Crimson Cash Account
Your Crimson Cash Account is a voluntary prepaid debit account on the Grove City College Crimson ID
Card. The account may be used to pay for purchases at participating campus locations (Bookstore, Food
Service, Print Services, Registrar) up to the amount of the prepaid card account balance. Please refer to
the Crimson Cash Agreement on MyGCC for complete details.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT
Office Location: Crawford Hall, Ground floor
Hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - Noon and 1:00pm - 5 p.m.
Phone: (724) 458-3300
Fax: (724) 450-4040
A wide variety of jobs exist on campus ranging from food service and grounds crew to laboratory
assistants and professors’ assistants. Any full-time Grove City College student (a student with at least 12
credits) may apply for student employment online on MyGCC. Priority is given to qualified students with
a demonstrated financial need based on a review of the Financial Aid Form. No student may work more
than 20 hours a week during the academic year (freshmen are advised not to work more than 4-6 hours a
week until their second semester and are not allowed to work more than 10 hours per week during their
first year at Grove City College).
Students interested in applying for work on campus may do so by applying online through MyGCC. Please
visit the ‘sign up’ tab to fill out an application. Each department fills their own positions and will contact
students who have applied for student employment directly.
Several departments (the Library, Curriculum Library, Admissions Office, all lobby attendants, and
Computer Services and Support) have filled their open positions for fall. If you are interested in these
positions, you will want apply in the late fall for spring semester openings.
Those seeking employment in the Fall semester are generally able to secure a position in one of the
cafeterias. If you have not heard from one of the departments you applied to work for and you are still
seeking employment, visit one of the cafeterias and see if there are any open shifts that fit your class
schedule.
Periodically, check the student employment website for new openings both on & off campus. Contact the
Financial Aid Office at (724)-458-3300 if you have any questions.
Those securing a job on campus should see Student Payroll for additional details.

91

STUDENT ENGAGEMENT
Office Location: Breen Student Union, 2nd Floor
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Phone: 724-458-3352
E-Mail: StudentActivities@GCC.edu
Student Involvement Council (SIC)
The Student Involvement Council, or SIC, is a group of student leaders who work to help Grovers get
involved on campus. From hosted events, such as movie nights, live music, game nights, to promoting
activities hosted by student organizations, SIC is here to help Grovers get engaged, stay involved, and
have an enjoyable experience.
Orientation Board (OB)
The Orientation Board is a group of students whose sole purpose is to help welcome new Grovers home.
OB hosts fun events for new students in August/September and in January for Spring entrance. OB also
promotes connection groups, where new students get connected with upperclassmen students to learn
about Grove City, meet new friends, and become known by others.
Campus Activities and Traditions
Annual activities and traditions you can expect include:
 Concerts
 Open Mic Nights
 Movie on the Lawn
 Fall Fest
 Holiday Parties
 Guest Music Artist Performances
 Fall & Winter Coffee House
 Moonlight Breakfast
 … and so much more!
Student Clubs & Organizations
Over 120 student clubs and organizations exist on the Grove City College campus. There are
organizations dedicated to spiritual growth, missions, community service, academic and professional
development, academic growth, social engagement, and special interest groups. During the first week of
the Fall semester each year students can attend the College’s annual Organization Fair and find where to
plug in for fellowship and involvement.
Can’t find a group that fits your interests? Consider starting something new!
Any student desiring to start a new student organization must meet with the Director of Student
Engagement to receive directions regarding the College’s approval process. All current and proposed
student organizations must demonstrate support for the educational mission, identity, values, outcomes,
and community standards of Grove City College. When reviewing student proposals and determining if
an organization should be recognized, the College’s mission, values and identity will be compared to the
stated mission, goals, and objectives of the petitioning organization. The College reserves the right to
deny any request for official recognition, and the benefits thereof, based solely on a perceived lack of
alignment between the College and the proposed organization.
In addition, student organizations must demonstrate that they will provide a new opportunity for the
College community. College departments that have similar goals and objectives must support and affirm
the goals of the proposed student organization (e.g., Philosophy Club and Department of Philosophy;
touring choirs and the Department of Music) and ministry organizations should have the approval of the

92

Christian Formation Office prior to pursuing recognition. Organizations must also provide evidence that
there is ample student interest to support the organization. Finally, student organizations must
demonstrate that they have the support of a full-time Grove City College employee who has agreed to
serve as the advisor of the organization. All College organizations are expected to abide by college policy.
Cultural Life
Grove City College hosts many cultural activities on campus, which include renowned experts in the
fields of music, literature, journalism, drama, science, education, national, and international affairs.
The popular Showcase Series programs feature artists of national and international reputation in music,
drama, and dance. Contemporary musical groups are also brought to the campus. In addition, each year
there are several student dramatic productions; concerts by the Chapel Choir, the Touring Choir, the
College Community Symphony Orchestra, the College Symphonic Band, and the Jazz Ensemble; and
recitals by Orchesis, a student dance ensemble. There are also several student and professional art exhibits
on campus each year. The annual J. Howard Pew and Albert A. Hopeman Jr. Science, Engineering, and
Mathematics Lectures, and the J. Paul Sticht Lecture in Business and Ethics bring to campus outstanding
speakers in many different fields.
Publications
The College owns, funds, and publishes several publications that offer students the opportunity to develop
their journalistic skills, including The Collegian, the weekly campus newspaper, The Echo, The Quad,
and The Journal of Law and Public Policy.
Around Town
Restaurants within easy walking distance include Beans on Broad, Broad Street Grille, Coffaro’s Pizza,
Collage Coffee, Fox’s Pizza Den, Jin Sushi, and various fast-food establishments. The Guthrie Theater is
a short walk and offers screenings of contemporary films and the occasional themed event. Local parks
include walking trails, disc golf, and spaces to relax. Local sweet treats are available from local favorites,
including Jones’ (Milkshakes), Katie’s Korner (Ice Cream), and Weavers Creamery.
International Students
The Office of Global Programs will serve as your main source for advisement during your time as a
student. Student Life & Learning will provide support in ongoing transition challenges as well.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION
Office Location: Breen Student Union, 2nd Floor
Email: SGA@GCC.edu
Instagram: @gccsga
The Student Government Association (SGA) is the chief communication link between the student body
and the administration. Through daily and weekly meetings with administrative leaders, SGA keeps the
College administration aware of student concerns and interests. SGA serves the individual student by
providing an outlet for any comments or suggestions he or she may have pertaining to the College
community. SGA is composed of the Executive President and twenty-nine voting members, including the
officers from each class and the Executive Committee. Voting for all SGA members, except freshmen,
will take place prior to the close of the spring semester, for the following academic year. Freshman
officers will be elected in the Fall. The SGA Senate meets regularly throughout the year. Meetings are
generally held each Tuesday evening throughout the semester and all students are welcome to attend.

93

SGA Student Affairs Committee
The Student Affairs Committee is a link between the administration, faculty, and students to enhance
campus life. This committee focuses on campus improvement projects, senior class gift coordination,
assistant student groups with initial proposal reviews, and more! This committee is chaired by the
Executive Vice President of Student Affairs.
SGA Academic Affairs Committee
The Academic Affairs Committee has the responsibility to discuss matters pertaining to the academic life
and intellectual atmosphere of the College with the Provost and the Deans of the College. Chaired by the
SGA Academic Affairs Vice President, the Elections Subcommittee oversees all SGA elections.
SGA Social Affairs Committee
The Social Affairs Committee’s goal is to offer an outlet for students to develop community by
organizing campus events. This committee, led by the Senior and Junior Vice Presidents, works closely
with other campus organizations to plan activities and entertainment designed to enrich the social aspect
of Grove City College. The committee is headed by the Social Affairs Vice Presidents who work closely
with the Director of Student Engagement.
SGA Communications & Marketing Committee
The Communications & Marketing Committee directs all internal communications and external
marketing for the Student Government Association. They are tasked with managing advertising for all
SGA events through physical posters, social media, and other relevant mediums. Committee members
will benefit from previous graphic design or advertising skills but are wholly unnecessary to succeed on
the committee. The committee is headed by the Executive Vice President for Communications &
Marketing.
Executive Officers
Executive President
Vice President of Student Affairs.
Vice President of Academic Affairs
Senior Vice President of Social Affairs
Junior Vice President of Social Affairs
Vice President of Communications & Marketing
Treasurer

Ezekiel Esteban
Jaina Hershey
Julia Sikora
Abigail Haught
Chloe Berger
Natalie Gilkinson
Madeline Taliaferro

Class Officers
The officers of each class serve as representatives of their fellow classmates in the Student Government
Senate. They are responsible for planning and executing any class-sponsored events or other social
function. In addition to organizing these events, each officer has specified responsibilities. The Class
President oversees the general coordination of all class events and serves as a liaison between students
and administration. The Secretary aids the President in overall coordination of class activities and attends
to class correspondence. The Senators for Academic, Social and Student Affairs serve as members of
their respective Student Government committees.
For a comprehensive list of your SGA representatives, please visit the SGA website under the Student
Life tab on MyGCC.

94

STUDENT LIFE AND LEARNING OFFICE
Office Location: Office of Student Life and Learning (Second floor, Breen Student Union)
Hours: Monday – Friday, 8 am – 5 pm
Phone: 724-458-2171
Email: StudentLife@gcc.edu
Our Vision is for every student to thrive and our whole community flourish. We strive to support Grove City
College’s mission of equipping students to advance the common good through a living-learning
environment that enhances the academic experience, fosters learning, develops students holistically,
engages students in vibrant community, and provides opportunities for growth as leaders.
We make every effort to be…
Purposeful in Our Work
We believe our work matters and we strive to glorify Christ in all we do, including intentional
relationships, program design, administrative practices, stewardship, and assessment. It is through this
same lens that we see our students, full of God given potential and created for a purpose.
Creative and Collaborative
We endeavor to design creative programs and solutions to aid in the holistic development of our students
and the communities within which they live. We also believe collaboration makes us more effective at
what we do, meaning we endeavor to partner with students and others.
Relational
We build intentional and meaningful relationships with students and campus partners with an emphasis
on radical hospitality so as to nurture a vibrant campus community where people sense they belong and
have the support needed to thrive.
Ministry Focused
We engage our work as ministry looking for opportunity to love, challenge, support, serve, and care for
students, who bear Christ’s image and have been created with value and purpose.
Committed to Having a Growth Mindset
Recognizing the opportunity for continual improvement and knowing we will make mistakes, we humbly
prioritize accountability, collaboration, professional development, and an openness to changing the way
we do things. While we see value in institutional traditions and norms, it is our hope that this posture will
help us to grow, improve the student experience, and promote meaningful community.
Willing to Engage the Difficult
We agree to enter the difficult moments that come with our work. Whether this comes in the form of hard
conversations, confronting behavior, navigating loss, or encouraging needed growth, we commit to
speaking life in grace and truth.
Human
Dependent on Christ and prone to the flaws of humanity, we rely solely on the grace of Christ to guide
our work. Knowing we serve students who often struggle with perfectionism and comparison, we strive to
model rightly ordered lives, including work and rest.
It is our sincere belief that human beings thrive when they are members of flourishing communities, and
communities thrive when their members are flourishing.

95

Those serving in Student Life & Learning serve and influence students through involvement in summer
onboarding programs, new student orientation, residence life, commuter life, leadership development,
student activities, engagement opportunities, thriving initiatives, health services, counseling, campus
safety, career services, Greek life, housing groups, student conduct, mentoring, student recreation, student
government, and over 130 student clubs and organizations. While this includes a wide array of programs
and commitments, many are captured elsewhere in this handbook and need no further explanation. Two
could benefit from further detail…
Commuter Life
Commuting students are encouraged to make use of the commuter kitchenette (microwave, refrigerator, and sink)
and commuter lockers located in room 217 of the Breen Student Union. The Rathburn lounge also provides
commuters with a wonderful place to study and hang out with friends. Commuters who desire to use a locker
free of charge should bring a lock to campus and make arrangements with the Director of Student
Engagement who is located in the Student Engagement Office off of the Rathburn Lounge.
Commuters are welcome to purchase meals in the College dining halls. Blocks of meals are available in the
following sizes (25 for $240, 50 for $465, or 75 for $675). Commuting students can also buy
meals in any College eatery using Crimson cash, or purchasing meals with credit or cash.
We strongly encourage you to fully embrace your college experience by developing relationships with other
commuting and residential students and getting involved on campus.
Please feel free to address questions or present ideas to the Director of Student Engagement,
StudentActivities@GCC.edu.
Airport Shuttle
The Office of Student Life and Learning provides oversight to the College’s shuttle to and from the
Pittsburgh Airport. These shuttles are offered during the following times with exacted times provided on
MyGCC: August Arrival, Thanksgiving Break, Christmas Break, January Intersession, Spring Semester
Arrival, Spring Break, Easter Break and May Departure. The shuttle is not offered during the brief Fall
break.
Students desiring to reserve a seat should go to the sign-up tab on MyGCC at least one week in advance of
planned departure, click on Airport Travel and follow the prompts. Please refer to the shuttle schedule to
give yourself enough time to arrive well in advance of your scheduled departure. Weather and traffic
permitting, students should allow for at least an hour and twenty minutes of travel time.
Room is limited and seats will be confirmed on a first come first served basis. Riders will receive an email
confirming their seat.
Shuttle Fee:
-Those who reserve a seat at least one (1) week in advance of departure will pay $30.
-Students will be allowed to reserve a seat after this deadline when space allows for $45.
- From time to time a student will arrive at the shuttle location (either on campus or at the airport) in the
hope he/she can use the shuttle. This is an extremely risky plan, as we cannot guarantee a seat will be
available. In those cases where a seat is available the student will be charged $60.
To Pittsburgh Airport:
Passengers should plan to depart from the PLC (Physical Learning Center) parking lot and should arrive 15
minutes prior to scheduled departure.

96

Pick up from Pittsburgh Airport:
Shuttle pick-up will take place in the area between Baggage Claims L, M, P and Badging Office (between
doors 1 and 2). Please make sure your flight allows you at least ½ hour of leeway between your arrival and
the shuttle’s departure time, so as to allow for baggage pick up. We adhere strictly to the shuttle’s departure
times. Buses will unload in the PLC (Physical Learning Center) parking lot upon arrival to campus, and
students are responsible for the transport of luggage to their residence hall.
Refunds will not be issued once inside one (1) week of scheduled departure or arrival.
The shuttle only travels to and from the Pittsburgh Airport and is only available at the times noted on MyGCC.
While we will endeavor not to make changes to the published schedule, we reserve the right to alter the
published schedule.
STUDENT PAYROLL
Office Location: Crawford Hall, Second floor
Phone: (724) 458-3350
Fax: (724) 458-3890
Email: payroll@gcc.edu
All new student employees must complete the payroll packet available on MyGCC under the Financial
tab on the Student Payroll page or in the Financial Services Suite, Crawford Hall, 2nd floor prior to
working on campus. Please DO NOT complete the packet until you secure a job on campus.
Students must bring the following information in person to the Payroll Office located in the Financial
Services Suite on the 2nd floor of Crawford Hall:
Identification to complete the I-9: The most commonly used evidentiary documents are either a current
U.S. Passport, or both a valid Driver’s License and Social Security Card. Note, one form must be a
government issued photo ID. Copies of the forms are acceptable if you do not have the original on
campus.
Direct deposit banking information (such as voided check or letter from your bank). Student employees
are required to utilize direct deposit. Students may choose any financial institution so long as they have a
valid checking or statement savings account established to receive their pay via direct deposit. A number
of local banks offer free checking accounts to students. Students may wish to contact the banks located in
Grove City to learn more about the services they offer.
While students complete their paperwork to be eligible to work on campus, a timecard will not be
available until the supervisor submits a hire notification to payroll using the portal on MyGCC. Students
cannot request a timecard be added for a position.
Student employees are responsible for entering their hours worked on the timecard entry portlet on
MyGCC and are paid monthly throughout the academic year. The pay period begins on the 1st day of the
month and ends on the last day of the month. Approved timesheets must be submitted to the Payroll
Office immediately following the end of the pay period. Students are paid on the 10th of each month. If
the 10th falls on a weekend or holiday, the pay date will be the workday prior to the weekend or holiday.
Pay period dates are updated and posted on MyGCC on the Student Payroll page.
Payroll information is located on the Financial Tab on MyGCC, click Student Payroll on the left side of
the page to access the portlet. The student employee will be able to view and print current as well as

97

previous payroll information. W-2 Wage and Tax Statements may be accessed online or are mailed to the
home address in late January.
STUDENT RECREATION
Intramural & Club Sports Office: PLC A116
Summer Hours: Closed during the summer months
Hours: Monday-Friday 10:00 to 4:30 (24 hr. on call)
Phone Numbers: Ext. 2170
Email: StudnetRecreation@GCC.edu
The Director of Student Recreation oversees all Intramural programming (IM) and Club Sports. The aim
of these programs is to encourage fellowship with other students through competition while building
healthy relationships, glorifying God and staying active. Students are able to participate as regularly as
interest, ability and time permit. Additional benefits are physical development, good health, a sound state
of mind, great competition and a lot of fun! At this time, we offer more than 40 intramural activities.
These opportunities vary year to year, but usually include:
Women:
Bowling
Badminton
Racquetball
Dodgeball
Kickball

Flag Football
Tennis
Basketball
Ultimate Frisbee
Wallyball

Volleyball
Indoor soccer
Ping-pong
Outdoor Soccer
Spikeball

Men:
Football
Soccer
Badminton
Bowling
Cornhole

Frisbee
Volleyball
Basketball
Softball
Dodgeball

Ping-Pong
Racquetball
Outdoor Soccer
Wallyball
Spikeball

Coed:
Tennis
Ping-pong
Badminton
Outdoor Soccer
Super Smash Bros

Table Tennis
Racquetball
Bowling
Indoor Soccer
Spikeball

Euchre
Volleyball
Softball
Wallyball

We also offer seven official club sports:
Women:
Fencing
Field Hockey
Martial Arts
Ultimate Frisbee

Men:
Fencing
Ice Hockey
Martial Arts
Rugby
Ultimate Frisbee

98

WRITING CENTER
Office Location: Buhl Library, Room 013E
Writing Center Location: Buhl Library, Room 013A
Tutoring Hours: Monday-Thursday, 3 p.m. - 8 p.m.
Quiet Study Time: Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. - 2:30 p.m.
The Writing Center offers students, faculty, and staff an opportunity to discuss and workshop their
writing. Trained writing tutors assist at all phases of the writing process, from topic generation, to
developing ideas and content, to research strategies, to focusing the thesis, to organizing the document, to
formatting, to polishing style and reviewing grammar, to documenting sources. Students can also use the
collaborative workspace for quiet study time, Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. - 2:30 p.m.

99

APPENDIX A: STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS
Select State Rules and Regulations
Grove City College students are part of the community and are therefore subject to the laws of the
borough, state and federal government. The following excerpts from the State Crime Code are applicable
to all Grove City College students.
The Pennsylvania State Law: for Alcohol Abuse (PA Title 18 §6307)
The Pennsylvania State Law mandates that a person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree if he,
being under the age of 21 years, knowingly and falsely represents himself to be 21 years of age to any
licensed dealer or other person, for the purpose of procuring or having furnished to him any intoxicating
liquors. Maximum penalties: $500 fine and/or 1 year in jail.
A person is guilty of a summary offense, if he, being less than 21 years of age, attempts to purchase,
purchases, consumes or transports any alcohol, liquor or malt or brewed beverages. Maximum penalties:
$300.00 fine and/or 90 days in jail.
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree if he knowingly, willfully and falsely represents
to any licensed dealer or other person, any minor to be of full age, for the person to sell or furnish any
intoxicating liquors to the minor. Maximum penalties: $300 to $2,500 fine and/or 1 year in jail.
The State Liquor Control Board operates under State Law. Under that law (Title 18) it is a misdemeanor
to transfer (unlawfully) an identification card for the purpose of falsifying age to secure malt or alcoholic
beverages. Also, it is a misdemeanor for any person to sell, furnish or give any minor under 21 years of
age any malt or alcoholic liquor. Penalty: Minimum of $1,000 fine and/or 1 year in jail. Second offense:
$2,500 fine and/or 1 year in jail. Any violation of Pennsylvania State Liquor Laws by persons under 21
years of age results in the automatic suspension of a Pennsylvania Driver’s License for a period of three
months, regardless of whether the violation took place in conjunction with a motor vehicle. These laws
are reciprocated in part or in whole with most states contiguous to Pennsylvania.
The Pennsylvania State Zero Tolerance Law (in part Title 75; §3802)
The legislature passed a law making it illegal for anyone under 21 (a minor) to drive with any amount of
alcohol in his/her system. The law states “a minor shall not drive, operate or be in physical control of a
motor vehicle while having any alcohol in his/her system” (hence the “Zero Tolerance” terminology).
Title 75: Section 3718. A minor apprehended with a .02% of alcohol in his/her system would be charged
with a Driving Under the Influence (DUI) violation.
For a juvenile minor (under age 21) a DUI is a misdemeanor offense and requires a one year
Pennsylvania driver’s license suspension; a drug and alcohol evaluation; participation in a state-approved
Alcohol Highway Safety Program if ordered by the Court; payment of fines and costs, and restitution;
Juvenile Court supervision or placement; and chemical test refusal violations will result in an automatic
one year suspension of driving privileges. For “of age” adults, 21 years old and older, the legal
implications of driving under the influence of alcohol are spelled out in Title 72 § 38 of the PA State
Code. If you are arrested and convicted for drunk driving in Pennsylvania you may receive 6 months
probation and a $300 fine if your BAC was between .08-.99. If your BAC was from .10-.159 you will
receive from 2 days-6 months in prison, a $500-$5,000 fine and a 12 month drivers license suspension.
It is unlawful for any person to operate or any person to occupy any motor vehicle with an open alcoholic
beverage container known as the “open container law.” The law prohibits open alcoholic beverages or
controlled substances in an automobile.

100

Antihazing Law (Title 24; §5352)
In 1986, Pennsylvania adopted the Anti-hazing Law, Title 24; §5375.The law defines hazing as follows:
Hazing: Any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or physical health
or safety of a student or which willfully destroys or removes public or private property for the purpose of
initiation or admission into or affiliation with, or as a condition for continued membership in, any
organization operating under the sanction of or recognized as an organization by an institution of higher
education.
The term shall include, but not be limited to, any brutality of a physical nature, such as whipping, beating,
branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements, forced consumption of any food, liquor, drug or
other substance, or any other forced physical activity which could adversely affect the physical health and
safety of the individual, and shall include any activity which would subject the individual to extreme
mental stress, such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced conduct which could
result in extreme embarrassment, or any other forced activity which could adversely affect the mental
health or dignity of the individual, or any willful destruction or removal of public or private property. For
purposes of this definition, any activity as described in this definition upon which the initiation or
admission into or affiliation with or continued membership in an organization is directly or indirectly
conditioned shall be presumed to be “forced” activity, the willingness of an individual to participate in
such activity notwithstanding.
Grove City College considers hazing in any form a very serious offense and does not differentiate in
terms of degree. The College reserves the right to determine the violation of College anti-hazing
regulations in terms of the College’s definition of the anti-hazing law – civil prosecution notwithstanding.
The Pennsylvania State Law for Illicit Drug Abuse (In Part)
In June 1972, Pennsylvania adopted the Uniform Controlled Substance, Drug, Device and Cosmetic Act.
This act reduced most drug violations to the class of misdemeanor. One of the major exceptions is the
distributing of drugs by a person over 21 years of age to a person under 18 years of age, who is at least
four years his junior. This violation is the most heavily punishable under the act.
Possession of a small amount of marijuana only for personal use; the possession of a small amount of
marijuana with the intent to distribute but not to sell; or the distribution of a small amount of marijuana
but not for sale, is considered an unclassified misdemeanor and carries with it a sentence of imprisonment
not exceeding thirty days, or a fine not exceeding $500, or both. Possession of Drug Paraphernalia also
carries a charge of the misdemeanor level with imprisonment and fines both possible.
Thirty grams of marijuana or eight grams of hashish shall be considered a small amount. Any amount
above thirty grams of marijuana or eight grams of hashish shall be considered possession with the intent
to deliver and is considered a misdemeanor of the third degree. This violation carries with it one year
imprisonment and a fine of $5,000, or both.
If a drug violation is committed after a prior conviction of the Pennsylvania Drug Laws, the penalty shall
be imprisonment not exceeding three years or a fine not exceeding $25,000, or both.
For the first conviction of the Pennsylvania Drug Laws for a marijuana violation considered an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender will lose driver’s privileges for 6 months. For a second offense,
driver’s privileges will be suspended for 1 year and the third offense carries with it a two-year suspension
of driver’s privileges.

101

Federal Drug Laws (In Part):
For a first conviction of illegal possession of a controlled substance, a person may be imprisoned for up to
one year and/or fined up to $100,000. Subsequent convictions carry stiffer criminal penalties. Other
penalties may apply, such as forfeiture of property used in connection with the crime, denial of certain
federal benefits and revocation of certain federal licenses.
Fireworks (Title 35; Act 204)
It is illegal to possess or use fireworks, without being bonded and registered with a permit by the local
municipality. In the Borough of Grove City, prosecution can be under disorderly conduct, of the
misdemeanor level.
Forgery (Title 18; §3932 and §4150)
Anyone who fraudulently signs another person’s name to a document is guilty of forgery. Writing “bad
checks” using your own or an assumed name in the amount of $200 or more is a misdemeanor of the 3rd
degree. Full reimbursement plus interest and service charges to the payee are due upon conviction.
Retail Theft (Shoplifting) (Title 18; §3929)
Any person committing the first offense of retail theft when the value of the merchandise is less than $150
is guilty of a summary offense. Maximum penalties: $300 fine and/or 90 days in jail. Act 272, section
3829, requires the fingerprinting of any person 16 years of age or older after being charged with retail
theft.
Upon conviction of a second offense when the value of the merchandise is less than $150, the person shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. Maximum penalties: $5,000 and/or 2 years in jail.
When the value of the merchandise is $150 or more, any person who shall commit the offense of retail
theft whether same shall be first or second offense shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Maximum penalties: $10,000 and/or 5 years in jail.

102

APPENDIX B: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
The College’s Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) provides a framework for incident preparedness and
outlines emergency response protocols for situations such as fires, bomb threats, and campus
evacuations. The plan also describes the various methods by which the campus community may be
informed of emergency situations. It is imperative that students be familiar with this plan and all
evacuation procedures. For this reason, a copy of the information in the College’s ERP flipchart is
published below. Students are strongly encouraged to read this section of The Crimson so as to be better
prepared should an emergency occur. Emergency preparedness will also be addressed in mandatory
residence hall meetings at the start of the academic year. Finally, the College will be testing the plan
periodically and will expect the cooperation of the entire campus community.
ALWAYS CALL CAMPUS SAFETY IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE
On-Campus Emergency: 724-458-3000 Non-Emergency: 724-458-2111
Media Inquiries
Refer all outside media inquiries to the Communications Office: 724-458-2032 or 724-458-3846.
Methods of Communication
The following methods of communication are available and may be used in the event of a campus
emergency. The usage of these tools will be dependent upon the particular set of circumstances present
in the situation or incident. Not every communication tool will be used in every situation.
Campus Siren
An outdoor audible siren has been installed on campus and may be used for notifying the campus
community of weather-related situations or other emergencies. Although this siren reaches the entire
outdoor perimeter of the campus, it cannot be heard from inside all buildings. When sounded, there will
be a period of “tone” followed by voice instruction.
Voice/Text Messaging System
A voice/text messaging system is available for use when necessary. There will be times where the
system will be used independently or in conjunction with the siren.
Email
There will be situations when the campus email system will be used.
Utility Failure/Power Outage
Contact your Resident Director for routine maintenance service. Notify Campus Safety at 724-4583000 for major power outage or utility failure, which may include natural gas, electricity, heat and
water.
Cease all activity during a gas leak! DO NOT SWITCH ON LIGHTS OR ANY ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT. Electrical arcing can trigger an explosion! Go to a safe location away from the leak and
notify Campus Safety at 724-458-3000.
Bomb Threats
Bomb threats MUST be treated as a serious matter. In the event of a call, obtain all the information
possible from the caller. Be firm, calm, and speak quietly. Allow proper authorities to make evacuation
decisions.

103

Quick Response: Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Keep caller on line as long as possible
• Request name of building where threat is located
• Request exact location of device: what floor, part of building, type of device, package
description, detonation time
• Advise the caller that the building is occupied by people and the detonation of a bomb
could result in death or serious injury to many people
• Note the following information: gender of caller, accents, background noise, speech pattern,
time of call, age of caller
If a suspicious object or potential bomb is discovered, DO NOT HANDLE THE OBJECT:
• Evacuate the immediate area and call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Include the location and description of the object when reporting to Campus Safety.
FIRE AND EXPLOSION

Quick Response:
• Protect yourself
• Fire: Evacuate to assembly area
• Explosion: take cover, assist the injured, evacuate to assembly area

In a fire, follow “RACE” guidelines:
• Remove or Rescue: Remove everyone from the immediate area of the fire. Rescue anyone
who needs assistance getting out.
• Activate an alarm: Notify others of the fire. Activate the fire alarm and call Campus Safety
at 724-458-3000. Tell them everything you know. Details are important.
• Confine and contain the fire: Close all doors/windows. This slows the spread of fire and
smoke giving people more time to evacuate safely.
• Evacuate or extinguish: Decide whether the fire is small enough to fight and whether you
can do so safely. Make sure you have an escape route at all times.
o Do not re-enter the building until notified by Campus Safety. Silencing of the
alarm is not a signal to reenter the building.
If You Are Trapped in a Building, DO NOT PANIC:
• Place an article of clothing (shirt, coat, etc.) outside the window as a marker for rescue crews
• If there is no window, stay near the floor
• Shout at regular intervals to alert emergency crews of your location
• If the door is warm, do not open it
• If smoke is entering through the cracks of the door, stuff something in the cracks to slow the flow
Operating a Fire Extinguisher (PASS):
• Pull the pin
• Aim extinguisher hose at the base of the fire
• Squeeze the lever
• Sweep from side to side

104

HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Spill containment and clean-up should be performed by trained personnel.
Quick Response: Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Protect yourself
• Secure the area
• Assist the injured
• Evacuate the area and assist others in doing so
Chemical Spills Procedures:
• Evacuate the area immediately
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 and say you are reporting a chemical spill
• Do not enter contaminated area
Biological (Blood) and Radiological Spills Procedure:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 who will call trained personnel
SEVERE WEATHER

Tornado
• Stay indoors
• Move away from windows and open doors to avoid flying debris
• Move to pre-designated shelter location for your building or the lowest floor possible
• AVOID AUDITORIUMS AND GYMNASIUMS or other large open areas
• Do not use elevators, electrical equipment or telephone
• Sit on floor and cover your head with your arms to protect from flying debris
• Await instructions from Campus Safety or all-clear siren signal
Earthquake
• Stay indoors and remain calm
• If indoors, seek refuge by bracing yourself in a doorway or crawling under a desk or table
• Stay away from glass windows, shelves, and heavy equipment
• Do not use elevators, electrical equipment or telephones
• Do not use open flame
• Be prepared for aftershocks
• Await instructions from Campus Safety or all-clear siren signal

Inclement Weather Policy for Students
The following policy is in place to help address the rare closure or delay of classes due to severe
weather. Grove City College is primarily a residential college with a majority of its students living on
campus. Therefore, it is regularly the intention of the College to remain open during inclement weather
conditions. Commuting students should exercise caution and good judgment in dealing with potentially
hazardous travel conditions. Each student should decide whether or not to be absent from class, to come
to campus late, or to leave early for weather related reasons.
Determination of Delay or Closing
In some situations, the College may close or delay classes due to severe/hazardous weather conditions.
For storms occurring late at night or early in the morning, the decision to close the College or delay
operations will be announced at approximately 5:30 am. This announcement will be released to the local

105

television stations and will be broadcast to all students and employees through the Campus emergency
notification system.
During a Campus Closing
All classes will be canceled for the day (with a determination of whether or not to hold night classes
coming before 2:00 pm). The closing announcement will be communicated through local television
stations and the Campus emergency notification system. All offices will be closed and events will be
cancelled upon a campus closing announcement.
OFF-CAMPUS EVACUATION
There are two types of off-campus evacuations. In the event of an off-campus evacuation, it will be
conveyed to the campus community which evacuation plan would be implemented as described below.
Short Term Evacuation – 12 Hours or Less: The student body will be divided into four groups based
on their residence hall. Each group, as directed below, will proceed to its designated shelter. The
Residence Directors and Residence Assistants will accompany the students and are expected to serve in
the same capacity as they do in their respective residence halls. All communications with the students
will be conveyed to the students at these shelter locations.
• Colonial, Memorial, and Ketler to East Main Presbyterian Church
• Hopeman, Lincoln, Hicks and Alumni to YMCA and Hillview Elementary School
• MAP to Tower Presbyterian Church
• MEP and Harker to Grace Methodist Church
Commuter students and employees are directed to go home immediately. If a specific service of an
employee is required, the employee will be contacted at their residence.
Long Term Evacuation – 12 Hours or Longer: Students who live within a six-hour drive and have
transportation will be required to go home. These students will be encouraged to take friends home with
them. All students are to check-in with Student Life & Learning at the following e-mail address
(studentlife@gcc.edu) upon arriving home to confirm their safe evacuation.
Students with transportation living farther than a 6-hour drive and students that do not have
transportation should do the following:

•
•
•

Students without transportation should proceed to Harbison Chapel for transportation
and travel arrangements
Students with transportation should meet in the MAP West parking lot with their vehicle to
pick up the students without transportation
Students will proceed to the Grove City Alliance Church or Church of the Beloved Disciple
parking lot where they will be met by College officials

Logistical Information:
Student Life & Learning personnel will be stationed at Harbison Chapel to aid in the evacuation and to
direct students to the designated off-campus church parking locations
• Campus Safety will be at campus entry and exit points to assist in traffic flow
• College officials will be present at the designated off-campus church parking lots. The
officials will perform a head count and pair these students with faculty or staff for
housing purposes
• A designee will be responsible for enacting the Employee Calling-Tree for purposes of housing

106

students with employees who have volunteered to house students
PSYCHOLOGICAL EMERGENCY
A psychological emergency exists when an individual’s behavior is inappropriate and/or out of control
to the extent that they may be a danger to themselves or others. Take action when an individual is
talking about suicide, is threatening to do harm to someone else, or appears to be out of touch with
reality (characterized by hallucinations, delusion, complete withdrawal, or uncontrollable behavior)
because of drug use or a psychotic break.
Quick Response:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• State that you need immediate assistance and give your name, your location, and nature of the
problem
• Contact your Residence Director on duty (male 724-967-2120; female 724-967-2139)
o The Campus Safety Office or Zerbe Health and Wellness Center may be used as a
waiting area.
o Campus Safety or the Residence Director on duty may contact staff from the
Counseling Center after hours if deemed necessary.
All incidents involving psychological emergencies will be reported to the Counseling Center and the
Office of Student Life & Learning.
If a student is violent or refuses help, call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 immediately.
The College Counseling Center provides:
• Individual support/counseling needs
• General/group counseling as needed
• Crisis intervention and debriefing
• Resources and referral services
All services are free and confidential (unless student waives confidentiality or disclosure is legally
required).
Call Counseling Center during business hours (Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. to noon and 1 to 5 p.m.) to make
an appointment: 724-458-3788.
PERSONAL INJURY
Emergency Quick Response:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Provide the following information: location of injured person, type of injury or problem,
individual’s present condition, sequence of events leading to the emergency, medical
history- if known, phone number from which you are calling
• Do not move the victim unless in a life-threatening situation
• Do not exceed your training
• If safe to do so, wait with the victim until help arrives
• Stay on the phone with dispatcher

107

Clothing on Fire:
• Stop
• Drop
• Roll around on floor to smother flame or drench with water
• Obtain medical attention if necessary. Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Report incident to your Residence Assistant or Residence Director
Hazardous Material Splashed in Eye:
• Immediately flush eyes with water for 15 minutes
• Forcibly hold eye open to ensure effective wash behind eyelids
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-x3000
• Report incident to your Residence Assistant or Residence Director
Minor Cuts and Puncture Wounds:
• Vigorously wash injury with soap and water for several minutes
• Obtain medical attention
• Report incident to your Residence Assistant or Residence Director
Biological or Radiological Spill on Body:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 who will dispatch trained personnel
MEDICAL EMERGENCY
Quick Response:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Provide the following information: location of injured person, type of injury or problem,
individual’s present condition, sequence of events leading to the emergency, medical
history- if known, phone number from which you are calling
• Do not move the victim unless in a life -hreatening situation
• Do not exceed your training
• If safe to do so, wait with the victim until help arrives
• Stay on the phone with dispatcher
Medical emergencies include:
• Any life-threatening situation
• Loss of consciousness
• Chest pain
• Excessive bleeding
• Head injury
• Ingestion or inhalation of toxic substance (including excessive alcohol consumption)
• Seizures
• Allergic reactions with shortness of breath, excessive swelling
• Suspected fractures
Non-emergency illness or injury to students:
• Call Zerbe Health and Wellness Center at x3850

108

•

When the Health Center is closed, contact your RA and the RD on duty (male 724-967-2120;
female 724-967-2139); if an RD cannot be reached, contact Campus Safety at 724-458-2111
(non-emergency number)

Illness or injury to faculty or staff:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Responding officers will assist and call for emergency medical services, if needed
Illness or injury to visitors or guests:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Responding officers will assist and call for emergency medical services, if needed
SEXUAL ASSAULT
Please see “FURTHER EXPLANATION: SEXUAL HARASSMENT, VIOLENCE, AND ASSAULT
AWARENESS & RESPONSE” on page 20 for an extensive plan of response.
Quick Response: Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
Seek medical assistance as soon as possible following the incident. Advise medical personnel that
treatment is necessary because of sexual assault or rape. Do not change clothes, shower, douche or
apply medication before going to the hospital. Medical information is essential should one choose to
press charges.
VIOLENT AND CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR / ACTIVE SHOOTER RESPONSE
Everyone is asked to assist in making the campus a safe place by being alert to suspicious situations and
promptly reporting them. Weapon possession on campus is prohibited and should be reported. If you
observe a criminal act or are a victim, immediately notify Campus Safety via phone at 724-458-3000 or
emergency call box.
Quick Response for IN-PROGRESS INCIDENTS:
• Remain calm
• Do not attempt to intervene except for self-protection
• Go to a safe location
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Give your name and location and make sure the responding officer understands that the
incident is in progress
Reporting Crimes in Progress:
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000 and provide as much of the following information as
possible, including nature of incident and that it is in progress, location, description of
persons involved, description of property involved, your name and phone number
• If your safety is not in jeopardy, stay on the line until an officer arrives on the scene
• Assist officers by supplying them with all additional information and ask others to cooperate
o Should the threat be determined credible and outside the resource capability of the
College, Campus Safety will notify the Mercer EMA through the 911 call center. The
911 call center will ensure that the appropriate support agencies will be dispatched to
assist the College with the threat.

109

Reporting Crimes That Have Already Occurred:
• All crimes should be reported
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Do not touch or move anything that may relate to the crime
• When the officer responds, provide description of property and
names/descriptions of any suspects/witnesses
Shooter is Outside Your Building:
• If you can do so safely, inform building occupants
• Close and lock your door and all windows; if door cannot be locked, secure by other
means such as blocking with desks and chairs or using a door wedge
• Turn off lights
• Seek protective cover; stay low and away from doors and windows
• Keep quiet and act as if no one is in the room
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Do not respond to commands until you are certain they are issued by Campus Safety or a police
officer
Shooter is Inside Your Building:
• If you can escape the area safely and avoid danger, do so by the nearest exit or window
• Leave personal belongings (books, backpacks, purses, etc.)
• Move quickly
• Keep hands visible
• Follow instructions from Campus Safety or police officers you may encounter
• Do not move injured persons. Notify authorities of their locations as soon as possible
• If you cannot escape the building, move into an office or classroom
• Lock or barricade door
• Turn off lights
• Seek protective cover; stay low and away from doors and windows
• Keep quiet and act as if no one is in the room
• Call Campus Safety at 724-458-3000
• Silence cell phones
• Place signs in exterior windows to identify the location of injured persons
• Do not respond to commands until you are certain they are issued by Campus Safety or a police
officer

110

FIRE ALARM ASSEMBLY AREAS
Alumni Hall
Buhl Library
Carnegie
Colonial
Crawford
Harbison
Harker
Hicks
Hopeman
Hoyt
Ketler
Lincoln
MAP Annex
MAP North
MAP South
MAP West
MEP
Memorial
Pew Fine Arts
Phillips FH
PLC
Pres. House
Rockwell
SHAL
STEM
STU
TLC
Zerbe

Rock Quad (around Professor of the Year rock)
Main Quad West side of building
Grassy area near Tower Church
Tennis Courts
Main Quad
Main Quad
Upper Quad
Grass in front of dining hall
North sidewalk Quad side
Rock Quad (around Professor of the Year rock)
Main Quad (north side)
West side of Lincoln
Main Quad
Baseball Field
Main Quad
Baseball Field
Baseball Field
Grassy area East of building
Grass in front of Hicks Dormitory
Parking lot North of field house
Rock Quad (around Professor of the Year rock)
Parking area west of President’s House
Main Quad
Courtyard
Main Quad
Grass around Professor of the Year rock
Grassy area South of building
Parking area on West side

Consider the following when choosing the Assembly Areas:
• Wind Direction (keep people UPWIND and/or out of smoke or fumes)
• Probable direction of arrival of first responders (stay clear)

BUILDING AND SHELTER LOCATIONS
-Athletic/IM fields - Go to nearest accessible building. If unable to reach a building, lay flat on ground
in a depression. Stay away from telephone poles, trees, fences and metal bleachers. Sheds and
equipment boxes may not provide safety during severe weather.
-Carnegie - Basement hallways, storage rooms, conference room
-Harbison - Evacuate and seek shelter in nearest accessible building
-Colonial - Basement, 1st floor halls (close doors, avoid windows)
-Crawford - Basement hallways, restrooms near vending machines, hall behind Campus
Safety/Operations, OB cage, Crawford Social Room
-Cunningham - Basement

111

-Field House - Any interior hallway, locker rooms and restrooms
-Ketler - Kitchen, housekeeping lounge, restroom in back hallway
-Harker - 1st floor hallways (close doors, avoid windows)
-Hicks - Bon Appetit kitchen (no other areas on 1st floor), 2nd floor (close doors, avoid windows), two
lounges on each floor (one at the east end and one at the west end)
-Hopeman - Exterior mechanical room (west end of building, no interior access), basement hallway
(close all room doors)
-Hoyt - Interior offices or restrooms, close classroom and office doors - to use 1st floor hallways, stair
towers
-Buhl Library - Basement, Library Instruction Classroom (basement), hallway near elevator
(basement), staff lounge, basement restrooms
-Lincoln - 1st floor hallways, laundry room (basement), Resident Director Apartment (basement), all
1st floor restrooms/shower rooms
-MAP - Mole Hole, South Rec, hallway from South Rec to MAP dock, including Bon Appetit’s two
storage rooms, 1st floor hallways (close doors, avoid windows)
-Memorial - 1st floor hallways, 1st floor bathroom/shower rooms
-MEP - 1st floor hallway, 1st floor restrooms/showers near Rooms 18 and 22
-Pew Fine Arts - Little Theater; Rooms 22, 24, 25, all near Little Theater; back hallway from set shop
to the Little Theater; men’s and women’s dressing rooms, back hallway; Instrument Storage Room 27;
Practice Rooms on 1st floor near elevator, men’s and women’s restrooms on first floor near elevator;
Practice Rooms 51- 61in hallway near pottery rooms; Rooms 48 and 62 in hallway near pottery rooms,
rehearsal room hallway
-PLC - Men’s Locker Room 106 (Main Locker Room), Men’s Locker Rooms 102-105 (Varsity Sports
and Visitors Locker Rooms), hall between main locker room and coach’s hallway, Women’s Locker
Room 152 near competition pool, Women’s Locker Rooms 108 and 138, Visiting Women’s Locker
Rooms 107 and 107A, women’s staff room, all rooms in hallway near old racquetball courts, athletic
laundry room, student laundry room, athletic trainers room, old weight room (not fitness room), Rooms
116-117, bowling alley toward the pin machines
-President’s House - Basement
-Rockwell - Close classroom and office doors to use basement hall
-SHAL - 1st floor restrooms, 1st floor hallway away from Atrium and other windows, classrooms 114
and 116, stair towers, tunnel from HAL to STU, if accessible
-Student Union - Bookstore ground level, mailroom, tunnel from STU to HAL if accessible
-TLC - KC 1, KC 2, Training Room (and hallway near KC1, KC2 and Training Room) auditorium,
restrooms, basement, near elevators
-Zerbe - Hallways, emergency room, Exam Rooms 2 and 3, Nursing Supervisors Office/lounge,
storage closet

112

Please consider entering the following numbers in your cell phone
Campus Safety
Residence Director (RD) On Call
Director of Student Care
-Cell
Associate Dean of Student Life
-Cell
Assistant Dean of Student Life
-Cell
Campus Counseling Center
On-Call Counselor
College Nurse
-Cell
Vice President of SLL
Cell

724-458-3000
724-967-2120
724-458-2177
724-967-2631
724-264-4684
724-967-3683
724-450-4033
724-967-6053
724-458-3788
724-458-3000
724-458-3850
724-967-1466
724-458-3348
724-967-1767

Community Agencies
AWARE Rape Crisis Center
Grove City Medical Center
Grove City Police/Emergency
National Sexual Assault Hotline

888-981-1457
724-450-7170
911
800-656-4672

113

114

