RAManual
2024-2025

TABLE
OFCONTENTS
Quick References
RD & Other Phone Numbers
Important Dates

2

Mission & Vision
The Purpose of this Manual
Residence Life Mission & Vision
RA Job Description
RA Code of Ethics

4

Service
Hall Opening & Closing
Master Key Usage Duty
Information Discipline
Process Confrontation

14

Community
Biblical Foundations Interpreting
Community Faithfulness &
Limitations Listening Well
Programming
Student Engagement Model
Programming Finances Approving
Flyers & Posters

25

Health, Wellness, & Safety
Emergency Contacts & Protocols
Campus Safety
Counseling Center
College Student Health Risks

41

Appendices & Notes

54

Directory

73

34

1

Quick References
Things you might need to know fast.

Resident Director Phone Numbers
Chris Merrick
Naomi Hollgarth
Si Mitchell
Jessie Gayer
Daniel Hollidge
Isaac Cooke
Ben Meekin
Christian Butera
Hanna Kincer
Eryn Slippy

Asst. Dir. Of Residence Life
& RD of Ketler Hall
Asst. Dir. of Residence Life
& RD of MAP North Hall
Colonial Hall Apartments
MAP South & West Halls
Hicks Hall
Hopeman Hall
Lincoln & Alumni Halls
Memorial Hall
MEP Hall
Harker Hall

724.458.3856
724.458.3315
724.264.1250
724.458.3317
724.458.3316
724.458.3311
724.458.3310
724.458.3309
724.458.3314
724.458.3312

Other Phone Numbers
Campus Safety:
Emergency:
Office:
RD On Call:
SL&L Office:
Zerbe Medical Center:
Counseling Center:

724-458-3000
724-458-2111
724-967-2120
724-458-2171
724-458-3850
724-458-3788

Addition al Numbers and Information:

2

RA IMPORTANT DATES 2024-2025
As you plan, recognize this list is NOT exhaustive. Other dates may be added as needed. We will do our best to give you the
most notice possible if there is an addition or a change in date, time, or place.

Residence Halls Open for RAs

Sunday, August 11th at 8:00am
No meals provided until Monday, August 12th

Fall RA Training

Sunday, August 11th – 21st

First Thursdays Leadership Development

Fall & Spring Semesters 5:00-6:00pm;
First Thursday of the month

RA Team Meetings

Fall & Spring Semesters
Approximately 2 hours weekly

One-on-ones with your RD

Fall & Spring Semesters
Approximately 1 hour bi-weekly

Halls Close for Thanksgiving

Saturday, November 23rd at 10:00am
RAs should plan to be around until at least 12pm for closing

Wednesday, December 18th 1:00 PM

Halls Close for Christmas Break

RAs should plan to be around until at least 3pm for closing

Residence Halls Open for RAs

Thursday, January 9th at 8:00am
No meals provided until Fri. Lunch

Spring RA Retreat

Friday, January 9th – 11th

RA Hiring Recruitment & Interviews

Current RAs help hire future RAs as
needed through February

Halls Close for Spring Recess*

Saturday, March 1st at 10:00am
RAs should plan to be around until at least 12pm for closing

Sunday, May 11th at 12:00pm

Halls Close after Commencement*

RAs should plan to be around until at least 12:00pm for closing

3

MISSION
&VISION
4

The Purpose of this Manual
“Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for human masters.” – Colossians 3:23

Throughout the following pages of this document, you will encounter tools, resources, and wisdom necessary to the RA role.
This document is a product limited by the reality of time, capacity, and functionality. Even still, our humble prayer is that it is
of benefit to you and the students you will be serving in the year to come. To frame your experience with this manual, we
wanted to provide you with answers to the four questions that guided the creation of this document.
1. Why should this manual exist?
2. How should RAs engage with the manual to maximize its benefit?
3. When it is mostly likely they will need to use it, and what will they need to know if
those moments?
4. For whom has this document been created, what are its limitations, and who will be there for the RAs
in those moments?

Why
This document exists to help you thrive as an RA. This year will contain highs and lows, both in this
position and beyond it. Our hope is that this RA Manual serves as a guide for how to engage the role
well, leading and serving faithfully, tactfully, and intentionally.

How
This document, while a labor of love from the ADRLS and DRL, is not totalizing. It is comprehensive in
the sense that it encapsulates most elements of the job. However, this role is one that changes and adapts
according to the needs of those whom you are leading and serving. There will be moments when the
perspective you need may not be found here. In those cases, as in any case, really, look to your RD and
fellow RAs as resources.

When
At any time. This document is one connection you will have to the training you will be receiving and
taking part in over the next several days. When you have questions, when you are discouraged, when you
need a refresher course, or when you are looking for some encouragement, we hope you come to this
manual and consider the guidance offered in these pages.

Who
This question can be answered in two different ways. First, this document is for you. It is for you in that it is
intended for your use, and it is for you in the sense that its purpose is to provide you with the resources you will
need to fulfill this role well. Secondly, while we hope you see this document as a proper resource, the greatest
assistance you will receive will come from your building team. Your RD and fellow RAs will be a source of
continual encouragement for you, and we pray earnestly that you will invest in these relationships and provide
support for them as they in turn do the same for you.
5

Student Life and Learning
Our Vision:
Every student thriving, our whole community flourishing.

Our Mission:
The Office of Student Life & Learning strives to support Grove City College’s mission of equipping students to
advance the common good through a living-learning environment that enhances the academic experience, fosters
learning, develops students holistically, engages students in vibrant community, and provides opportunities for growth
as leaders.

Our Values:
We are…
Purposeful in Our Work
We believe our work matters and strive to glorify Christ in all we do, including intentional relationships,
program design, administrative practices, stewardship, and assessment. It is through this same lens that we
see our students, full of God given potential and created for a purpose.
Creative and Collaborative
We endeavor to design creative programs and solutions to aid in the holistic development of our students and
the communities within which they live. We also believe collaboration makes us more effective at what we
do.
Relational
We build intentional and meaningful relationships with students and campus partners with an emphasis on
radical hospitality so as to nurture a vibrant campus community where people sense they belong and have the
support needed to thrive.
Ministry Focused
We engage our work as ministry looking for opportunity to love, challenge, support, serve, and care for
students, who bear Christ’s image and have been created with value and purpose.
Committed to Having a Growth Mindset
Recognizing the opportunity for continual improvement and knowing we will make mistakes, we humbly
prioritize accountability, collaboration, professional development, and an openness to changing the way we
do things. While we see value in institutional traditions and norms, it is our hope that this posture will help us
to grow, improve the student experience, and promote meaningful community.
Willing to Engage the Difficult
We agree to enter the difficult moments that come with our work. Whether this comes in the form of hard
conversations, confronting behavior, navigating loss, or encouraging needed growth, we commit to speaking
life in grace and truth.
Human
Dependent on Christ and prone to the flaws of humanity, we rely solely on the grace of Christ to guide our
work. Knowing we serve students who often struggle with perfectionism and comparison, we strive to model
rightly ordered lives, including work and rest.

6

Residence Life Mission Statement
The Residence Life team strives to form meaningful relationships that support and challenge our students, with
the intent of creating communities that flourish and helping individuals thrive.

Residence Life Vision & Values
Connect:
We love because He first loved us (1 John 4:19). Our calling is to connect students to God, others, resources, career
possibilities, knowledge, creation, and new experiences as God created us to be in relationship with one another.

Cultivate:
We train to slow down and simplify our lives around us to what really matters: practicing an unhurried life with God,
be people of presence, formulate deep relationship utilizing our God given gifts and talents, and seek to grow through
wisdom in the Lord holistically to further His kingdom.

Challenge:
We recognize our scope of influence has ripple effects into the culture by helping “prepare the child for the road not
the road for the child”. We examine our presuppositions, cultural liturgies, vulnerabilities, bad habits, independence,
commitments, leadership, and vocation against what is biblical truth through a posture of intellectual curiosity,
humility, and kindness.
Joy:
We celebrate the freedom we have in Christ and His transformative power in our lives and in this world. As we
empathize with others through their hardships and pain, we are focused on the ultimate hope found in the Gospel.
Intentionality:
We strive to incorporate our purpose into everything we do. We commit to regularly assess the purposes of our
processes, to repurpose spent ideas/programs, and to pursue engaging relationships with students.
Teachability:
We recognize our sinful nature and natural shortcomings. We are continually a work in progress. We commit to
identifying our inadequacies and pursuing sanctification.
Collaboration:
We acknowledge the privilege and importance of interpersonal relationships and our role as a part of the broader
campus community. We commit to honor and serve the well-being of others and to support other departments in
their endeavors.
Gratitude:
We are aware of our limited resources, both tangible and intangible. We commit to stewarding what we are given
to increase the effectiveness of our department.
7

Residence Life Vision Expounded
In short, the Residence Life Department of Grove City College strives to be committed to our students,
our team, and our Institution, at large. In service to each of these groups, we want to practice
commitments to whole-person care, professional excellence, a co-educative philosophy, and
collaboration. On the next page there is a further explanation of the ways in which we desire to serve
them.
1. We seek to serve students with excellence through:
a. Invitation: We affirm the formational and transformational influence of communal living.
It is a privilege that we desire for each of our students to enjoy during their time here at
Grove City College. Therefore, we seek to embody an invitational posture that welcomes
students into this privilege of living. Invitational living includes being approachable,
reaching out to all types of students, using care in our language to not exclude others,
being creative in our approach to cover broad interests and personalities.
b. Education: We affirm that our humanity is multi-faceted, and a proper education speaks
to and develops many of these areas. Therefore, we seek to provide our students with a
residential learning experience that enhances, and is coherent with, their overall Grove
City College educational experience. This includes looking for and leaning into
educational opportunities formally and informally, whether through conversations,
mediations, meetings, or programs.
c. Ministry: We affirm that our work affords us the opportunity to come alongside
students in their faith development process during very formational years. Therefore,
we understand that discipleship and mentorship is an inherent component of our work,
and we will seek such opportunities to serve students when possible. Our roles are not
simply employment but also opportunities to be the hands and feet of Christ each day,
participating in His redeeming work and helping students see their true value in the
Lord.
d. Administration: A core component of our work as residential professionals is the
managing and maintaining of the residence halls of Grove City College. Understanding
that these facilities do influence a student’s educational experience, we seek to operate
them with utmost care, professionalism, and intentionality.
2. We seek to serve the Residence Life team with excellence through:
a. A Commitment to Departmental Goals: We seek to bring to fruition the departmental goals outlined
in this document, and the departmental goals that will continue to develop in the future knowing
that the goals will be carefully considered and crafted to bring the flourishing of our students, our
staff, and our Institution.
b. A Commitment to One Another: We consider it a privilege to be a member of this team and this
campus community. Therefore, we will seek to honor, serve, and promote the well-being of each
person on our team. This includes approaching one another in disagreement and de- siring to
understand team members’ perspectives. It also includes believing the best in one another. We will
be at our best as a team when we are committed to giving our best to our jobs and to one another. If
we notice dissonance with a team member, we are committed to talking to the person about it or
processing with the DRL and ADRLs.
8

3. We seek to serve Grove City College with excellence through
a. Seeking the Best for GCC: Grove City College is our employer, and we affirm that our jobs
require that we serve the Institution faithfully, even in its imperfections. Therefore, we will view
our work as not only service to students, but also to GCC and its constituents, and will seek to
bring about its flourishing through our work.
b. Faculty & Staff Integration: We affirm that collaboration outside of our Department is also vitally
important to our success and the success of our students. Therefore, we will seek to partner with
faculty and staff in the education and development of our students, all the while considering our
forums and means for educating students differ and still play an important role in the
developmental process. Recognizing we all have strengths, gifts and passions, collaboration allows
us to capitalize on other another’s gifts and serve our students, institution, and one another as best
as possible. Did you read this? Find Isaac and ask him about a favorite place he visited growing
up.
c. Commitment to Student Life and Learning: We affirm that Residence Life is one part of the Student Life and Learning Division. Therefore, we will view our work as a part of the greater purpose
for Student Life and Learning, and in that seek to be a benefit to the entire Division in its pursuit of
student development.
d. Loving it in its strengths & weaknesses: We recognize that Grove City College has many strengths
and areas where growth is necessary. We will seek to be people who love this place well in its
entirety, recommend changes that would make it more effective, help in spaces where we can make
the institution better, and to seek to help it fulfill its mission in the process.

Notes & Additional
Thoughts:

9

Resident Assistant Job Description
Philippians 2:1-5
“Therefore if you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if any comfort from his love, if any
common sharing in the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, then make my joy complete by being likeminded, having the same love, being one in spirit and of one mind. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain
conceit. Rather, in humility value others above yourselves, not looking to your own interests but each of you to the
interests of the others. In your relationships with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus…”
The Resident Assistant (RA) is a 9-month student paraprofessional position reporting directly to the Residence
Director (RD) in his/her assigned residence hall. The Resident Assistant is responsible for building a sense of
community in their residence hall, along with their fellow RA team and RD, serving as a resource and support to
residents and assisting students in their spiritual and personal growth and development. Specific responsibilities of
the position include the following:
1. Build a sense of community among your residents and fellow RA team:
a. Develop and maintain respectful relationships with each resident under your care and the Res Life
team members in your building. Report any extended illnesses, absences, or special needs of your
residents to your RD.
b. Demonstrate professionalism and sound judgment. Enforce policies fairly and
consistently. Maintain confidentiality.
c. Provide and coordinate opportunities for residents to interact and form friendships in order to bond
as a supportive community and learn from each other.
d. Be able to give and receive constructive criticism with residents and your RA staff. This includes
following up with students regarding rumors or suspicions of policy violations, and when observing
potentially negative behaviors or attitudes.
e. Demonstrate dependability. Fulfill your specified programming, staff development (activities and
events) and staff duty coverage responsibilities each semester promptly and responsibly. Duty
coverage requires being in the building from 7pm-7am in traditional halls (5pm-7am in Colonial),
completing the number of rounds specified by your RD and monitoring open hours.
f. Plan and lead floor meetings at the beginning and end of the academic year and as directed by the
Residence Director.
2. Be a resource and support to residents:
a. Maintain a clear understanding of and communicate to resident’s overall campus policies,
procedures, and protocol, including the student conduct process. Keep your RD informed of
student-voiced concerns or confusion related to policy.
b. Be a knowledgeable consultant, resource person, and referral agent for campus resources and
offices such as the Counseling Center, Zerbe Health Center, Campus Ministries, the Dean of the
Chapel, Career Services, Bon Appetit, etc. Recognize and refer all problems of a serious nature to
the respective Residence Director and other Residence Life staff as needed.
10

c. Support and encourage residents to participate in campus activities, programs, and events. Post
signs in your hall when directed to by your RD. Discard outdated signs.
d. Assist in mediating roommate or relationship problems that may arise among residents.
e. Aid in transitioning new students into the residence hall community.
f. Report any maintenance, safety, or housekeeping needs in your hall and public areas in a timely
manner. Confront non-residents who enter the hall unauthorized. Confront students defacing or
abusing college property.
3. Assist students in their spiritual and personal growth and development:
a. Pursue and model personal spiritual growth and development through your own commitment to
Christ. Look for opportunities to lovingly challenge residents in their own faith journeys and
personal growth.
b. Encourage and model church and chapel attendance.
c. Facilitate opportunities for residents to grow spiritually and personally.
4. Demonstrate a commitment to the position
a. Limit extracurricular and co-curricular activities in order to devote the necessary time and effort to
the position. The Residence Director must be consulted before adding additional activities and
responsibilities.
b. Attend all RA staff meetings, scheduled one-on-ones or two-on-one meetings, ongoing required leadership trainings, and other residence life meetings as scheduled.
c. Return to campus by the designated dates and times in August and after college breaks to attend
RAs trainings and development sessions. Fulfill all check-in and check-out responsibilities,
including hall closing requirements during breaks and at the end of fall and spring semesters. You
are expected to adjust travel plans, internships, work commitments and other activities to abide by
this requirement.
d. Maintain a positive and cooperative attitude toward RA responsibilities.
e. Be able to immediately respond, at any given time, to various locations to monitor and report
emergency situations, including walking up multiple flights of stairs, moving furniture, supplies
and/or equipment, and utilize keys.
f. Demonstrate support for the philosophy of the Grove City College Student Life & Learning office,
the programs of Residence Life, and the Grove City College regulations and ordinances directing
community behavior and personal lifestyle.
g. Carry out other duties as assigned by the Residence Director or other Student Life & Learning
staff.
Additional Requirements:
• Students must have completed at least one semester as a full-time student at Grove City College.
• Students must be able to serve as a Resident Assistant for the entire academic year.
• A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 is required. Students with a GPA between 2.0 and 2.49 will be asked
a supplemental question on the application and need to be able to articulate a plan for achieving and
maintain their GPA above a 2.5 if they are selected as an RA.
• Students must demonstrate strong integrity and a Christian commitment consistent with the mission and
values of Grove City College.

11

RA Code of Ethics
Ethical Standards and Professionalism
Ethics can be defined as those agreed upon practices and behaviors for our team which reflect the values
of the Residence Life program and Grove City College. By our code of ethics, we intend to define the
conduct and behavior that is good for the entire Residence Life staff. Resident Assistants join faculty and
staff as fellow educators and influence the learning of others by what they do and say, both on and off
campus.
As a Resident Assistant and a member of the Student Life & Learning team, you always have a
responsibility to act as a positive role model for the students at Grove City College both in and outside of
each residence hall. It is important for all team members to personally abide by and support the policies
of Grove City College. An RA (alongside the RD) serves as the most highly visible representative of the
Student Life & Learning office and is, therefore, al- ways under close observation or scrutiny from
resident students. Therefore, an RA must use wisdom in his or her interactions with residents, friends,
professors, staff, or anyone else in the broader community always.

RA Accountability
The following steps are to be used as a guide for accountability measures. Certain actions may result in more
severe consequences as determined by Residence Life.

Disciplinary Accountability
Step 1- Verbal Warning
Verbal warnings are given by the RD to the RA in when the RA has failed to meet expectations. The verbal
warning can be given informally (a response in the moment) or formally (at a scheduled meeting).
Examples: tardiness, administrative shortcomings, disrespectful behavior, etc.
Step 2- Probation
Probation is formally documented on the RA’s employment record and is set for a pre-determined length of time
(usually one or two semesters). It does not prevent an RA from re-applying for the following year, but it will
factor into the decision. This will be noted in their employment file.
Examples: repeated verbal warnings, minor student conduct violations, failure to report a student conduct
violation, failure to meet programming expectations, etc.
Step 3- Dismissal
Dismissal will occur for more extreme offenses or in the case of students who are already on probation and
continue to forgo their RA responsibilities. RAs who are dismissed will be relocated to another hall to avoid any
issues with the replacement RA.
12

Examples: endangering students, failure to comply with a college official, major student conduct
violations, etc.

Academic Accountability
Grove City College takes the academic success of students very seriously. Likewise, Residence Life seeks to
prioritize the academic success of its staff. RAs are expected to have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 when
they are hired for the following academic year. Any exceptions to this requirement must be reviewed by the
Director of Residence Life.
Step 1- Probation
RAs who do not achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher at the end of each semester will be placed on
probation. This includes the spring semester during which the RA is hired by Residence Life. This will be noted
in their employment file.
Step 2- Dismissal
RAs who are already on probation and do not achieve a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher the following semester
will be removed from their position.

13

SERVICE
14

Service in the Residence Halls
During your time as an RA, you will be asked to serve this community in many ways. One of the most practical
will come about through your participation in the operation of the residence hall. This includes hall opening and
closing responsibilities, regular duty nights, following emergency response protocol, addressing policy violations,
and other ways you will assist in the daily functioning of these living and learning communities.

Opening and Closing Residence Halls
RAs play a crucial part in the opening and closing of residence halls. This is one of the primary ways you can serve
and love your neighbor as an RA. It may be a thankless responsibility, but sometimes this is the case when we are
serving others unconditionally. Please keep in mind that small details of this process can differ from building to
building.

Residence Hall Opening
Much work is done in the residence halls even before students return to campus. Your RD will have a list
of tasks which need to be accomplished by your team. Rooms need to be thoroughly inspected, keys need
to be checked and door nametags need to be hung. In addition, RAs are required to be available on MoveIn Day. Students typically begin to move in during the morning hours and then throughout most of the
day. RAs will escort the residents to their room and unlock their door. Once the resident is in the room,
they must complete their Room Condition Inventory (RCI). An RCI is a document that enables students
to check and record flaws/damages in their room, such as missing mattress pads, marks on walls,
damaged furniture, etc., prior to move-in. Please encourage your residents to be thorough in their initial
inspection because they may be fined at the end of the year for overlooked flaws/damages. The student
receives their room key only after the RCI has been completed.

Residence Hall Closing
Before you begin the checkout process, you need to collect keys, envelopes, and RCIs from your RD,
who will also provide you with sign-up sheets for resident checkouts. Your RD must approve the times
you are planning to be unavailable and then you can officially post the modified sign-up sheets on your
door. When checking out residents, be sure to thoroughly inspect rooms. If the student hasn’t followed
proper checkout procedure, please inform the resident, so that they can remedy the situation, and then
your RD if the problem has not been fixed. Since RAs do not issue fines, do not make promises to
students whether they will be fined or not. It is important to note that RAs are responsible for the
cleanliness of a room they have signed-off on, and, thus, may be required to clean a room properly if the
resident has already left. You are required to stay until your hall has been vacated unless indicated by
your RD.

15

Master Key Expectations
Each RA will receive a closet key and plunger. The plunger will give you access to the master key for the
building. Your key to the closet and the plunger should be kept in two different and concealed locations
for safety. These MUST be treated with the utmost care, so follow these instructions.
• The master key should be used for lockouts only.
• Unlock closet door, insert plunger, retrieve master key, leave plunger in, lock the closet door,
use master key to unlock resident’s door, place master key back in lock box, remove plunger,
ensure master key box is closed, close and lock closet.
• The master key must be immediately returned to the closet once the lockout is finished.
• You are required to record every use of the master key.
• Misuse of the master key is grounds for dismissal from your position.
• If misplacement and location are deemed as loss of the master key, it will result in over a $1000 fine.
• Did you read this? Find Daniel and ask his favorite childhood book growing up and you will get your favorite
candy bar.
If by some chance you lose your closet key, plunger, or master key, you must immediately
contact your RD, even if it is temporarily misplaced.

16

Duty Purpose & Guidelines
Purpose
The three primary purposes of RA duty are:
1. Building relationships and community by having intentional conversations with students
a. Avoid planning to work on homework or projects, so that when you are on duty you can be
fully present with people on your floor and new folks who you meet along the way
b. This time should be protected so you can be available to fully engage in the life of your
hall
c. Challenge yourself to knock on a few doors each time you’re on duty and spend time with
new folks. Be a listening ear, draw people out of their rooms, pray for them, laugh with
them, etc.
d. Find Ben Meekin’s favorite color and you’ll get your favorite candy bar.
2. Ensuring the safety of the hall by observing and reporting maintenance requests and other facility
concerns
a. Keep an eye out for wet stairwells, trash in the hallway, burnt-out lights or emergency exit
signs, missing fire extinguishers, strangers in the hall, etc. Address them both in person
and in the duty log.
b. Fill out an RA Duty Log entry for each round that you do immediately upon finishing
your round. Be sure to include people with whom you interacted, policy violations you
addressed, an interaction that required follow-up, a maintenance concern that needed
attention, etc. Remember the RD on duty is always available if you need immediate
assistance or insight on an interaction you’ve had, a building safety concern, or even an
urgent maintenance need you’ve discovered.
3. Addressing and confronting policy violations as they arise
a. Be sure to pay attention to unusual smells, open hours sheets, and general violations. You
are not walking around looking or waiting for violations but be attentive to your
surroundings and what is happening throughout the hall.
b. Call the RD on Call if you are ever unsure of how to react in a situation.

Guidelines
1. Be physically present in your residence hall from 7 p.m. until 7 a.m. when on duty (no leaving the
building for ANY reason during the week or Friday duty. Make a habit of eating dinner before
starting duty. If you have missed dinner for any reason, talk to your RD about getting food during
duty. It should be noted Colonial RAs it’s 5 p.m. until 7 a.m. when on duty.
2. Duty and Open Hours starts on Friday at 7:00 p.m. for Upper Campus & 5:00 p.m. for CHA
3. Friday operates like a weeknight and are not allowed to leave the building after 7pm.
4. Saturday & Sunday Duty: RAs can be on-campus outside the building from 8am-7pm. RAs must post their
location and should not make a habit of being out of the building every duty weekend. RAs should not be
in circumstances where they cannot drop what they are doing to attend a crisis. During the 8am-7pm time
frame includes breakfast and lunch hour for availability; 5 rounds should be completed on Saturday (11am,
2pm, 6pm, 9pm, midnight).
5. There is a three-hour block on Sunday morning for church and should be back by 1:00pm Sunday regardless. If you
17

attend an evening service, you can have the same block but must be back by 7pm.

6. Three rounds should be done on Friday evening, five throughout Saturday morning, afternoon, and
evening and three on Sunday afternoon.
7. The RA on-duty puts up Open Hours sign-in sheets. The RAs must get sheets up by 6:45 p.m. to avoid
any issues with students not signing in. When finished for the evening the sheets should be flipped over
or if completed, turned into the ARD/RD that evening.
8. Fill out the JotForm Duty Log after each round and submit it at the end of your final round.
9. Complete three rounds between 7 p.m. and 12 a.m. You should be coming back from your last
round near or after 12 a.m.
10. You can only switch duty by taking someone else’s shift. Your RD must approve all switches.
11. Your RD may have specific requirements for duty, and you are responsible for carrying out these
requirements as outlined by your supervisor.

18

Special Duty Dates
There will be unique times throughout the year when duty responsibilities may coincide with other events
happening on campus. Please be aware RAs will be on duty and have responsibilities during such times.
Labor Day: Monday, September 2nd (normal duty hours)
Homecoming: Friday, October 11th - Sunday, October 13th (Saturday Open Hours start at 10am)
Thanksgiving Recess*: Saturday, November 23rd at 10:00 a.m. to Sunday, December 1st (All RAs stay
until all rooms have been checked; most leave around noon). Please plan accordingly for
flights/rides.
Study Day: December 12th/May 1st
Finals Week: December 12th - 17th, May 1st – 6th
Christmas Recess: Saturday, December 18th at 1:00 PM - to January 11th at 9 AM (All RAs stay until
all rooms have been checked). Most RAs leave around 3PM- please plan accordingly for
flights/rides.
Super Bowl Open Hours: Sunday, February 9th (extended hours)
Spring Recess*: Saturday, March 1st at 10:00 a.m. to Sunday, March 9th at 9:00 AM (All RAs stay until
all rooms have been checked. Normal duty resumes on Sunday at 5:00 p.m. for Colonial and 7:00 p.m. for
Upper Campus)
Easter Recess*: Thursday, April 17th (No RA on Duty) to Monday, 21st (Normal duty resumes on
Monday at 5:00 p.m. for Colonial and 7:00 p.m. for Upper Campus.)
Finals Week: May 1st to May 6th (normal duty hours)
Underclassman Closing: Wednesday, May 7th at 3:00 p.m.
Graduation Day*: Halls close to all remaining students Saturday, May 10th at 6:00pm. All RAs (including
seniors) stay until all rooms have been vacated and closed. Contracts end on Sunday, May 11th at 12:00pm.
Plan to stay until 12:00pm unless your RD communicates otherwise.
* For hall closings, RAs are to stay until all rooms have been checked and RD gives permission to leave.

19

Discipline, Philosophy, & Process
The Grove City College community strives to be not only a center of academic excellence, but also a center
of personal excellence. Our standards of conduct are rooted in Biblical principles (Galatians 6:1-2, Hebrews
12, Proverbs 17:10) that help frame the moral standards by which all members of our community are held
accountable. Within the College community, the Office of Student Life & Learning specifically seeks to
facilitate an environment that is not only safe, but one that is healthy for all students, faculty, and staff to
interact.
In the Office of Student Life & Learning, we desire to provide accountability for students that will help
them uphold the standards of community that, we believe, are both redemptive and restorative. The
accountability process, however, is not a one-way street, but a relationship among the student, his/her
community, and the entire College.
If ever a member of our community should choose to break one of the community standards, our aims in
the accountability process are four-fold. We desire to:

Educate:
In every situation there is an opportunity to learn and grow. Because GCC is an educational institution,
we want learning to be a part of everything we do.

Change behavior:
Knowledge without action is useless. If a student goes through the accountability process, but actions
do not change, then it will be impossible for the student to healthfully contribute or receive within the
community.

Point to Christ:
As Christians, this is ultimately our reason behind everything.

Restore to community:
We believe that people are not defined by their mistakes. Instead, they are defined by how they respond
to being faced with the depth of their brokenness. Our final aim in the accountability process is to
provide an avenue for those who have broken community standards to positively respond in
reconciliation to the community.

Finally, it is important that students and RAs alike are familiar with the Non-Disciplinary Policy outlined in the Crimson (please read thoroughly). This policy explains that those taking the initiative to seek
help, prior to the behavior being confronted and/or reported to or identified by College personnel, will
not be subject to disciplinary action for past behavior.

20

Confrontation
Confronting others is never easy, however, effective confrontation is vital to the wellbeing of a student and the
community. When one confronts another in love, respect, and humility, the outcome can bring about a closer
connection between the two individuals (James 5:19-20, Galatians 6:1-2).

Confrontation Guidelines:
Setting: It is always good practice to confront someone in a private, neutral location, away from distractions
and the ears of others.
Confidence: Don’t apologize to the person about the confrontation. Get advice from your RD or another RA if
you need it.
Clarity: Be very clear and direct, while remaining polite. Think about the conversation you are going to have and
how you would like to approach it. Reflect on questions you would like to ask and think through multiple answers
to your questions. This will allow you to have more appropriate responses thought out.
Message Tone: Avoid accusatory language (“you” did this or that vs. “I” observed, or “I” heard). Intentionally
de-escalate the situation by speaking softly and slowly, sitting down, and encouraging them to do the same.
Remember, DO NOT offer them confidentiality to get an answer you desire.
Openness: Respectfully listen to their response; the confrontation ought to be a conversation and not one-sided.
Know the next step – letting them know what happens next is a good way to close a confrontation.

Emergency Confrontation:
1. Assess the situation. Does it need
Helpful Tip! Stay focused on the problem. Don’t spend your time
immediate attention? Do you need
defending yourself or the school policy, even in the face of anger or
help?
accusations. It is appropriate to say, “I’m willing to discuss why this
2. Stay put. Unless you feel threatened or
policy exists later, but now we need to deal with this issue.” Then,
in harm’s way, do not leave the room/
be sure to follow-up with them so they are clear on the policy.
area. Contact someone (Campus Safety/RD) and stay until help arrives.
3. Stay calm. Your composure will keep others calm and help the situation from escalating. You will feel
anxious, but stay as composed as you can. Be courteous while remaining direct.
4. Observe as much as possible. Record names (ask for IDs), collect items, take any notes regarding
the incident.
5. Once an RD or Campus Safety arrives, let them do their job and you assist them when asked. If a crowd
forms ask them to respect the situation, or even give them tasks (e.g. keep walk- ways clear for emergency
personnel). Again, it is important to maintain confidentiality.
Post-Confrontation:
•
•

Initiate follow-up with the resident.
Please don’t feel guilty for doing the right thing! Fill out an Incident Report (see appendix 5) or send
your RD an email letting him or her know about the confrontation and its result.
21

Communication & Incident
Management
Whether you are on or off duty, a big part of the RA role is being familiar with the communication
protocols when you encounter a violation of college policy. Follow this simple loop to guide you in the
process of confronting situations.

1. Assess
a. Be mindful of the context: Is it abnormal behavior for time of night or day
and for them personally? What do you smell? Are they being evasive?
What is strange about their speech, body movements, eyes/pupils? Are they
relating to you differently?
b. Write down details to cue your memory if possible.
c. Use wisdom when contacting RD: maintain a visual of incident location
(use discretion-protecting student dignity/confidentiality) or stay with
students in need.

2. Loop
a. Call your RD or the RD on Duty regarding concerns and feedback: alcohol violation, open hours
violations, damage to campus property, medical or mental health concerns, hearing of a violation
taking place or that already took place and/or call Campus Safety, depending on severity and
direction given from RD.

3. Respond
a. Confront lovingly but be careful not to apologize. Stay away from
sarcasm/humor.
b. Be direct about what you need to know.
c. At all times protect dignity of student & maintain confidentiality
of the situation.
d. If with a college staff, follow their instruction and lead. If unsure
of what to do, ask RD or Campus Safety.

4. Loop
a. Write IR immediately so that details are fresh in your mind. Proofread before sending to RD via email. Send directly after incident.
b. Follow-up with residents as directed by RD with- in a few days or weeks of incident.
c. Give feedback to RD as to how the resident is doing since the incident.

5. Repeat
22

Policies of Note
Inappropriate Affectionate Behavior
Inappropriate affectionate behavior is another challenging issue that comes up from time to time. It may often
seem too subjective to address or pass judgment on, but out of love for the individual(s) involved, as well as the
overall health of the community, this is often a necessary part of being an RA. For example, if you see a couple
acting inappropriately in a common space or walkway be sure to address the situation gently and follow-up with
the appropriate party in a timely manner.
Addressing this behavior can provide two important outcomes for our community. First, it keeps our spaces safe,
inviting, and hospitable for all our students. Secondly, it may keep the people involved from the potential of
unwelcome and compromising situations. Confronting this behavior in a loving and dignified manner keeps all in
our community safe and healthy.

Alcohol
Drinking is a challenging issue that comes up with relative frequency. Some RAs will deal with it more than
others. “Busting” people is neither our approach nor our interest regarding alcohol situations. When dealing with
these situations, our desire is to make sure the student is safe, as well as to demonstrate that intoxication or oncampus drinking is an issue we take seriously.
Communicating in a way that demonstrates care, while maintaining firmness, is crucial to effectively addressing
these issues. The safety of the individual(s) and the community is our highest priority/ concern, so if the
individual’s condition seems to pose a health or behavioral concern, do not hesitate to call the on-call RD
immediately even if the student is of age. It’s always better to have backup and not need it than to not have it
when you need it!
During RA training you will learn how to confront an alcohol situation. If you have specific questions throughout
the year or just need a refresher on what to do, ask your RD to spend some time in your one-on-one or team
meeting addressing alcohol scenarios. Here are some physical indicators that a person may have been drinking:
• Bloodshot eyes
• Slurred speech
• Lack of balance while walking or standing
• Inability to maintain eye contact or focus on a specific object
• Irritable/overly affectionate/irrational behavior

Drugs
The initial confrontation of suspected drug use or abuse will often resemble a typical response to drinking.
However, if you have a reasonable suspicion that drugs are present, call either your RD or the RD On-Call
immediately. Don’t worry, you won’t have to handle this situation alone. Your RD, Campus Safety and most
likely the Director or Assistant Director of Residence Life will be present during this scenario and will lead you
through.
Here are some physical indicators that a person may be under the influence of drugs:
23

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Irritable/overly affectionate/irrational behavior
Bloodshot eyes
Slurred speech
Shaking
Lack of balance while walking or standing
Inability to maintain eye contact or focus on a specific object
Pale, ashen, or clammy skin
Rings under the eyes
Smell of marijuana
Evasiveness in body language or verbal responses

Fighting
In the event of a physical altercation, do not try to intervene. Your safety is our top priority. As a representative of
the college, you may be the one responsible for relaying the facts of what happened, so try to provide an accurate
account of what happened, but not at the risk of your personal safety. If you come across two or more people
involved in a fight, remain at the scene from a safe distance. First, contact Campus Safety (724-458-3000), then
immediately call the RD on duty. You may intervene in a verbal fight to attempt to de-escalate the situation;
however, do not get between residents in case a fight erupts.
*See Appendices 3 & 4 for examples of how to write an incident report.

Plagiarism
When you come across the accusation or suspicion of plagiarism, we ask that you follow the process determined
by the academic departments on campus. Please encourage the student who brought this issue to your attention to
report the situation. If you have witnessed this, please report the incident on my.GCC.

24

COMMUNITY
25

Biblical Foundations of
Community-Building
Practices
1)

Belong to and accept one another in kindness
(Romans 12:10, Ephesians 4:25,31-32, Hebrews 10:25, 1 Cor. 12:24-25, Rom. 15:7, 14:14)
2) Be devoted to one another in mutual affection
(Romans 12:10)
3) Look out for one another
(Philippians 2:4)
4) Bear one another’s burdens
(Galatians 3:2, Isaiah 41:6)
5) Forgive and be compassionate to one another as the Lord has forgiven you
(Ephesians 4:32, Matthew 18:15-35, Co. 3:13, Romans 12:14, 17-21)
6) Be hospitable to one another
(1 Peter 4:9)
7) Honor one another
(Romans 12:10, 1 Corinthians 12:24-25)
8) Encourage and affirm one another
(1 Thessalonians 5:11, Hebrews 3:13)
9) Speak truthfully to one another (Ephesians 4:15, Eph. 4:25, Col. 3:9, Prov. 17:10)
10) Do not provoke in anger, grumble against, or envy one another (Galatians
5:25-26, James 5:9)
11) Love one another (1 John 4:7, 1 Peter 1:22, Romans 13:8, 1 John 3:16)

26

Interpreting Community
Development
Developing community can be nebulous and difficult. We can all probably tell of a time where we had
community or experienced the goodness of it, but thinking about how it developed or how we came to
thrive in it requires attentiveness and discernment. Being that a healthy community is a vital part of wellbeing, learning, and growth, it has been studied by many researchers. We find the following three
theories as a helpful lens to guide an RAs efforts and perceptions of how community develops. It’s
important to know that an RAs approach to developing community will and should vary depending on the
floor, the residents, and even the physical structure of the hall. Use these theories to reflect on your own
experiences and then begin to think about how they might inform how you go about facilitating
community on your hall.

1. Thriving in Community (Schreiner, 2010)
The single largest contributor to a college student thriving, and not merely surviving on campus, is a
psychological sense of community. Learn Chris Merrick’s favorite way to vacation and win your favorite
treat at the grocery store. Research has discovered that if a college student experiences a hall or campus
community marked by membership, relationship, ownership, and partnership they will be empowered to
meaningfully process and actively participate in academic learning, develop coping skills, goaldirectedness, appreciate the differences of others, establish positive relationships, and the ability to have a
hopeful and resilient attitude when experiencing failure. So how does one develop a sense of community?
The table below explains the four essential aspects of a thriving community:

Membership
-Not just “welcome,” but a full member of the
community; sense of belonging and validation
- Marked by symbols, signs, practices & rituals
-Accepts me for and helps me figure out who I am

Relationship
-Opportunities for positive interactions
- Shared emotional connections; is safe and trustworthy
-Has friendships and subgroups, not just acquaintances

Ownership
-Student voice and contribution
-Is engaged and challenged to take responsibility
for the learning process

Partnership
-Interdependence
-Shared goals and commitment to common purpose
-Student-Faculty/Staff interaction and research

27

2. Stages of Community (Peck, 1987)
Stage One- Pseudo community:
In this stage a group may feel like things are just fine, people seem to be getting along, relationships are
courteous, but it is a superficial, underdeveloped level of community. Conflict is avoided and seen as
wholly negative.
Stage Two- Chaos:
When pseudo community fails to work, the community experiences chaos as different members begin to
openly vent their frustrations and disagreements. In this stage, community members realize that
differences cannot simply be ignored, or conflict avoided. Chaos is a challenging stage that makes many
people just want to give up - but really it is the first step towards an authentic community.
Stage Three- Emptiness:
Community members learn to empty themselves of ego-related factors and embrace the needs of the
group. The needs of the individual are balanced with the needs of the community.
Stage Four- Authentic or True Community:
In this stage individuals grant each other empathy and understanding.
*It is important to note that it’s natural for a group to reach stage 4 only to retract to previous stages
over time.
**Many groups never get past pseudo community and find ways to courteously interact and get their
work done. That may be enough for their purposes, but ongoing groups like residents that are forming
their identity through the ups and downs of college life and learning to become an adult, a living
environment that is conducive to learning will be an authentic community.
Residential communities that engage in this developmental process and reach a stage of authentically
functioning as a community often err by not recognizing that being a community is a process, not an end
state. Communities are not static, they constantly change. New residents join the group, external crises
cause new levels or types of conflict, and key residents leave who had been instrumental to nurturing
community. RAs are instrumental in recognizing when they need to attend to the cycle of rebuilding a
genuine community.

3. Group Development (Tuckman, 1965)
This theory, containing the following five stages, might be helpful for RAs of CLP halls, but can also be
useful in interpreting how smaller social groups grow through each stage.
Forming: Task behavior is an attempt to become oriented to the goals and procedures of the group.
Relationship issues revolve around resolving dependency issues and testing, which can be sped up by
making leadership roles clear and getting the group acquainted. In this stage, information and structure
are critical.

28

Storming: In this stage, participants are resistant to task demands and members challenge the group's
leadership. Excessive storming leads to anxiety and tension whereas suppressed storming leads to
resentment and bitterness. Leaders should provide clarification about roles and helping the group build
conflict management skills are key.
Norming: This stage is characterized by cooperation. Task themes include communication and expression
while cohesion is the relationship theme. Teambuilding efforts increase group unity and increase shared
responsibility
Performing: At this stage, the group is functioning efficiently to achieve group goals. Group members
will assume roles that are necessary to achieve goals, learning independence with dependence. It is
beneficial to encourage a continued developmental theme for the group to stimulate new problems for
their problem solving.
Mourning: At this stage, the group comes to the realization that they will not be functioning together as a
group for much longer. Teambuilding efforts should be towards giving the group a sense of closure and
al- lowing the opportunity to reflect on the time spent together.

So, what’s the point to this and how might
it help you facilitate community on your
hall?
1. Think of a few tangible examples of how your team can facilitate or foster the growth of your
hall. How can you help them thrive? What types of experience or opportunities will allow them
to develop through the stages of community or group development?
2. We believe that sharing stories is an essential way to express vulnerability, build trust, and
celebrate God’s goodness in shared experiences within your community.
3. Identify where your group, pods of residents, or team is. Remember, the expectation is not
necessarily to build an entire hall that is close knit. Start with a few people on the hall and see
where it goes from there. Be careful to not only pursue those you’re comfortable with.
4. Develop strategies with your RD or fellow RAs of how you might help residents on your hall
reach the next stage.
5. Finally, if you find that there are residents on your hall who you perceive are not experiencing
belonging, spend some time in reflection and prayer for them. You may need to re-examine your
intentionality and approach.

29

Faithfulness and Limitations
Finding balance and accepting your limitations can be difficult when you live, work, and go to
school in the same community. Learning to develop healthy boundaries, though, will help ensure that
your experience as an RA is a positive one. Central to our understanding of wellness and balance are the
spiritual disciplines. Spiritual disciplines, aptly described in Richard Foster’s Celebration of Discipline,
encourage us to pursue holiness and wholeness in our inward dispositions, our outward expressions, and
our community practices. Spending some time with this book is a good place to begin ordering our
affections rightly in service to the Lord and others. With those in mind, we offer the below practices for
your consideration. Find out Si’s favorite thing to do on his down time and you’ll get your favorite candy
bar.

Do…
1. Remember to keep God first. Schedule time to spend with Him and pray. If we don’t schedule
and guard this time, it is often the most fluid and easy thing to forget when things get busy.
a. Resolve to make prayer pivotal in your daily life. Pray for yourself, your residents, your
team, your RD and all of SLL.
b. Encourage residents to post prayer requests on your hall and be committed to praying for
those things collectively and individually.
2. Learn to prioritize. This can take time; don’t be overcommitted and under-dedicated.
a. Academics come first
b. Followed by your RA role
c. Other commitments fall here.
3. Look at all your commitments and ask yourself these questions:
a. Are they benefitting the kingdom of God?
b. Are they encouraging my own or another’s learning and growth?
c. Are they drawing me away from my two top priorities?
d. What has God called me to do in this season of my life?
4. Once you decide what things you need to be committed to, put your all into them.
5. Be careful not to squander your time and opportunities. Each moment can be an opportunity to
serve the Lord and others.
a. View staff meetings as a way to grow with others serving in this position.
b. View one-on-ones as a space to process as well as a place to be challenged to grow.
c. View First Thursdays as ways to grow and assist you as a leader.
6. Create a vision for the year. Develop strategies for that vision. Find ways to motivate others to
be part of your vision.
a. Set goals. Goal setting is essential to reaching any vision! This is a good way to help you
stay balanced within the various roles that you play. It is a way to quantify what you are
doing as an RA.
7. Organize your duties and responsibilities.
8. Assess your attitude.
a. Bring enthusiasm and a spirit of teamwork to your meetings and duties.
b. Sarcasm, fault-finding and stubbornness are not helpful.
30

c. Show a willingness to go beyond basic job expectations with energy and creativity.
d. Affirm others on your team in their strengths.
9. Develop good communication in relationships.
a. Your relationship with your roommate is very important. Take time to develop a healthy
relationship with him/her.
b. Be willing to talk through conflict when it arises within your team.
c. Develop healthy boundaries with residents who want to consume your time and attention.
Don’t be afraid to let them know when you are busy and that you would be happy to schedule
time with them.

d. Hone your listening skills and be sensitive to the needs of others.
10. Rest!
a. Honor the Sabbath rest. It is part of how God wired us to be. It reminds us that the Lord
is God and can do his work quite apart from our busyness. It also gives us space to remember his goodness to us and rest in his joy over us.
b. Using your time wisely during the day can equal more sleep at night. Make time in your
schedule to sleep. It’s important to your health and models a balanced life.
c. Rest isn’t just sleeping. Rest can be taking a bike ride or a walk, hanging out with a friend,
listening intently to music, journaling, or spending time with God.

Don’t…
1. Be afraid to reevaluate your schedule if you are feeling overwhelmed with everything going
on in your life.
2. Be afraid to ask for help if you need it. We are not meant to live life alone.
3. Regard the RA position as merely a résumé-builder. Instead, view it as a way to develop
skills for the present and how God may be directing your future.
4. Waste the opportunities that God gives you to be present with another person.

31

Ten Important Aspects of Listening Well
1. Focus your attention. Clear your mind and direct all your attention to the speaker. This will help you stay
open to things you don't expect – one of the most powerful things listening can do is open your mind to
new ideas or reveal things that were formerly hidden. How long has Jessie been an RD? You get this right
and you’ll get your favorite snacks.
2. Understand the context. Try to figure out what the person is trying to communicate and why. This will
help you act in a manner that's appropriate to the context and ask the right questions.
a. Are they just venting, or do they want to change something? If venting, help them identify the
underlying issue over time.
b. What problem do they want to solve?
c. What result do they want?
d. Do they want you to do something? If so, what?
3. Don't get distracted. Your mind will have a natural tendency to wander, because we can think faster than
people can talk. Don’t be quick to assume you understand their issue. Be quick to listen (body language,
tone, key words, etc.). Beware of distractions on your phone. Your full attention will communicate how
much you value them.
4. Use follow trails. A follow trail is a simple question that you can keep asking till you get to the root of
something. Just continue to ask the question till you get to the source. You'll be surprised how powerful
this one is.
5. Use body language. Your physical behavior signals how well you're communicating. Some have even
suggested that 80% of our communication is through nonverbals. Your tone of voice, voice intensity, facial
expressions, hand and body motions, and stance all communicate something about your meaning. As the
listener, you must pay attention not only to the speaker’s nonverbal cues but to what you are
communicating with your body. The most important signal is your eyes. Make steady eye contact and
focus on the person's face. Nodding and leaning forward also signal attention.
a. People will respond to what is implied far more than they will to what is intended; thus, it is vital
that we become aware of the nonverbal messages we send and receive. If you appear to be
threatening, they will respond accordingly. Likewise, if you imply boredom, discomfort,
disinterest, intimidation, or send other negative messages, they may mirror your reactions. So, be
intentional with your body language.
6. Ask questions. And ask questions without asking questions. Like a good detective, the art is in asking
the right questions, and asking them well. It may be helpful to think about what type of question will help
you gather the information needed:
a. Open Questions: gather more information, develops trust, perceived as less threatening Tell me
more about…
b. Explain to me what you mean by that.
c. What do you typically do in situations like that?
d. Closed Questions: used for immediate fact gathering, can be perceived as presumptuous
32

• Are you okay?
• Do you know why you did that?
7. Take notes. It demonstrates that what the person is saying is important enough for you to write it down.
Occasionally, verbally summarize your notes out loud, to show the other person you are hearing and
understanding them.
8. Confirm your understanding. As you listen, think about how the person's thoughts would work in
practice. Play out scenarios in your mind and ask the person to confirm your understanding. For example,
ask the person: "So, what you are saying is…” or "So, if I were to apply this, I would..."
9. Let the person finish before you speak. We listen and process information faster than people can talk –
this can result in reacting or answering before someone is finished speaking—your mind is racing ahead. It
is also rude. Don't interrupt.
10. Don't judge too quickly. Suppress your own reactions remember to maintain an unassuming mind.
Reserve judgment until the end of the conversation (or even later). If you keep an open mind you will reap
the full benefit of the conversation and if you don't, you are limiting its potential.

A Few Things to Consider:
1. It’s important to note that RAs cannot guarantee confidentiality to the listener (please talk to your
RD for further direction).
2. If you have difficulty interpreting or understanding the issue, pray for wisdom and perspective,
both with the listener and individually, and seek the input of your RD.
3. Finally, it is crucial to ask yourself if you are the person the student should be talking with. Have
they talked with the person with whom they are frustrated? Does someone else (RD, another RA,
or a licensed counselor) have experience or a better perspective on their issue?

33

PROGRAMMING
34

Residence Life Student
Engagement Model
The next three pages outline the structure of our efforts to engage our residents through intentional
relationships. Our desire is to create an environment in which students are able to be supported and
challenged by the residence life staff.

Educational Programs
Programming is an important part of building a community. Our goal is to provide educational
opportunities for students to continue to develop in the areas listed below. These programs will focus on a
specific set of educational outcomes (See below). It is expected that these programs will be led by the RDs
of each building and will also function with the support of the RAs in that building.

Each building will complete 2 programs per semester. RDs will submit a program submission form for
each of their building programs at least two weeks in advance. The DRL will approve/deny each
program. Once the program has concluded, the RD will complete the evaluation section of the form.

Outcomes
Each building program must address at least one of the following outcomes:
1. Developing Competence: Developing individuals within intellectual, physical and manual
skills, and interpersonal competencies.
A. Intellectual Competence: Using reasoning and critical thinking skills.
B. Physical Competence: Involvement and attention to wellness, artistic, and athletic activities.
C. Interpersonal Competence: The ability to communicate and work well with others.
2. Managing Emotions: Becoming competent in their ability to recognize and mange emotions. Incorporating
all of their emotions and their ability to reasonably manage their reactions to events.
3. Moving through autonomy towards interdependence: Developing the ability to have an independent
outlook on life but an understanding that successful relationships are based upon an interdependence.
4. Developing mature interpersonal relationships: Growing in an attitude of neighborliness and brotherly
love, while becoming competent in their ability to appreciate commonalities and respect differences.
5. Establishing Identity: Understanding who God created them to be and how they function.
6. Developing Purpose: Making meaning through their own interests and seeing how those things lead
to an understanding of their personal and professional callings.
7. Developing Integrity: The ability for students to assemble and practice their beliefs or identify
inconsistencies between their beliefs and actions.
8. Spiritual Development: Students will learn how to grow in their relationship with God both
individually and corporately.
NOTE: Freshmen buildings should focus on the first four outcomes and upperclassmen on the last four.
35

Conversations
Conversations are the foundation of student engagement. Our hope is to have RAs regularly engage in
conversations with their residents through daily interactions, programs, and social gatherings. RAs
will also learn how to find creative ways to interact with residents who are disconnected from the
larger hall/campus community. Find out Tori’s favorite food and you’ll get your favorite meal (within
reason).

Each RA is expected to have 3 conversations with each resident per semester. Conversations will be
listed on the weekly report so RDs and RAs can identify residents with whom they have not connected,
and additional effort can be directed towards these residents. At the end of each semester, RDs will
review your performance and include it in your RA evaluation.
Level 1- Basic Conversation
Examples: Likes/dislikes, sports, current events, weather
Level 2- Thoughtful Conversation
Examples: Academics, theology, philosophy, roommate dynamics
Level 3- Deep Conversation
Examples: Testimony, accountability, anything involving tears, struggles/accountability, family situations

Collaborations
Orientation Board: OB exists to help welcome and connect incoming students. RAs will collaborate
with OB members to develop connections with new students and help them integrate into campus.
Campus Ministries: Freshmen RAs are expected to facilitate a weekly Bible study on their hall. Through
the support of the Campus Ministries department, the RA will run the Bible study or work with another
peer who is willing to lead (RA roommate, chapel aide, upperclassmen, etc.).
Community Living Privilege: CLPs offer a variety of events to their members. RAs of CLP halls benefit
from the ability to use these social events to connect with their residents.

36

Social Events
The ultimate goal of Residence Life is to create relationships. Social events are a natural part of the
college experience. These events are highly encouraged for the development of community and
provide a great opportunity for intentional conversations. RAs will include these events in their weekly
reports. RAs are given the freedom to choose what their events will consist of to help generate
relationships in their hall.
The most pivotal time of the year is the first six weeks of the fall semester. RAs are expected to plan
3 events during this time to help jumpstart their community. These events can piggyback off of
another event or be collaborated by multiple RAs.

37

School Year Events
August
OB Events
Org Fair

September

Places to Go
Local
Beans on Broad
Collage Coffee
Grove City Outlets
Jin Sushi

Fall Fest
Omicron Lawn

October
Homecoming

November
Thank-aDonor
GCC
Musical

December
Okie-Pi-Sig
Christmas Party

January
MLK Chapel

February
Ganza
Focus Week

March
Sig Madness

Travel
Pittsburgh Zoo
Andy Warhol Museum
Sports games
(Steelers/Pirates/Pens)
The Incline
PPG Place
Kennywood
National Aviary
Carnegie Science Center
Natural History Museum
Lawrenceville
Strip District
Station Square
Robinson mall
Niagara Falls
Cleveland Cedar
Point
Butler Museum of American Art
Youngstown, OH
Outdoors
Memorial Park
Buhl Park
Moraine State Park
Pittsburgh Botanical Gardens
Mill Creek Park

April
Relay For Life
AEX Live
Gala (bi-annual)

May
Family Weekend

38

Other Events
Intramurals
Ice Skating
Movie Night
Cookout
Capture the Flag
Game night
Hiking
Video Game Tournament
Bowling
Progressive Dinner
Scavenger Hunt
Swing Dancing
Mini-Golf
Pumpkin Carving
Family Feud
Gingerbread House Competition
Pottery Night
Ice Cream
Disc Golf
Athletic Events
Music Programs
Theater/Plays
Escape Room

Programming Finances
At the beginning of the fall semester, your RD will communicate with you regarding the funds available for
programming in your building and on your hall. Receiving funding can be divided into two methods:
1. Preimbursement: you spend money you have already received from the College
a. You must give your RD at least two weeks’ notice
b. Your receipts plus change returned must equal the preimbursement total
c. Find out Thomas’s kids name and you’ll get your favorite snack.
2. Reimbursement: you spend your own money and are reimbursed by the College
a. You MUST give your receipts to your RD within 14 days of the purchase, otherwise you will not
be reimbursed
b. Your receipts from supplies purchased will be the amount you are reimbursed
Instructions for receipts:
•
•
•
•
•

Do NOT write your name on them.
Do NOT circle or highlight the total on them.
Do NOT put non-programming-related purchases on them.
Do NOT staple receipts together but feel free to use a paper clip.
Do turn into your RD within 14 days of purchase if you expect to be reimbursed

39

Approving Flyers and
Posters
1. Posters or flyers are sent as a PDF document through my.gcc.edu//RA Resources tab//Print
Services with details (number of copies, account to be charged, color, double-sided, etc.)
2. Print Center forwards to Mr. Fehr and Miss Van Dam to be electronically stamped
3. Approved/stamped copies are returned to Print Center and printed

Posting Flyers on Campus
•

Use only masking tape

•

Do not post on glass of doors

•

Remove all flyers/posters after event

Posting Requirements for Specific Buildings
•

Staley (SHAL): Restrooms and stairwell at 2nd set of stairs NOT visible from 1st floor

•

Pew Fine Arts: Bulletin boards (8) only

•

Rathburn Hall: Only Campus Ministry events & posted only on the 2nd floor bulletin board

•

PLC: Bulletin boards only in the following areas:

•

•

(2) Racquetball court hallways

•

(1) Outside dance studio 2nd floor

•

(1) Intramural room

STEM: Only on the wall boards on the exterior of the lower level lecture hal

40

HEALTH
&SAFETY
41

Emergency Contacts and Protocols
The RA serves many functions within the residence hall, one of which is helping to ensure the safety of students
within their residence hall community. This includes addressing issues from fire safety to substance abuse.
However, the assistance of other offices is necessary to advance this residence life goal. In this section, the
policy and protocol regarding working with the Campus Safety office will be explained. Together, we further
the mission of Grove City College by ensuring the physical security of college facilities, and maintaining a safe
living, working, and learning environment.
Please read this section thoroughly. It is important to enter the Campus Safety telephone numbers into your cell
phone, as well as to memorize the emergency locations for your building (fire, severe weather, and short/longterm evacuation). Did you read this? If so, find Christian’s favorite outdoor activity and you’ll win your
favorite candy bar.

Campus Safety Contact Information:
Non-Emergency: 724.458.2111
Emergency: 724.458.3000

Contact Campus Safety for:
•
•
•

Medical Emergencies
Danger/threats of violence/physical altercations
Fire alarms

Contact RD on-call for:
•
•
•
•
•

Facilities emergencies
Alcohol incidents or concerns
Drug incidents or concerns
Open Hours violations or concerns
Mental health concerns

Notes on Campus Safety Transportation:
A good rule of thumb for campus safety transports is to ask whether it is an emergency or not. If it is, Campus
Safety will transport. Any injuries or acute illness that go to the Emergency Room are generally transported by
Campus Safety.
If someone is not injured or sick enough to need emergency room care, the student should arrange for transport
themselves. Routine doctor appointments, physical therapy, or other scheduled medical office visits would fall
into this category. If they cannot find a friend to transport them, they can call Superior Ambulance when they
make the appointment and see if a van is available to transport them at that time. There is a small fee for this
service, but it is not unreasonable.
There are occasions where the Health Center will call us and request transport for a student who needs to have
some tests completed at the hospital in time for an afternoon doctor appointment. When Zerbe designates it as
an urgent need, but short of an emergency, we generally will take them over if we have someone available.
42

Fire Alarm Assembly Areas
Building

Primary Assembly Area

Alumni

Grassy area around Professor of the Year rock

Colonial Hall Apartments

Tennis Courts

Harker

Upper Quad

Hicks

Grassy Area in front of dining hall (south side)

Hopeman

North sidewalk quad side

Ketler

Main quad (north side)

Lincoln

West side of Lincoln

Mary Anderson Pew North Hall

Baseball Field

Mary Anderson Pew South Hall

Main Quad

Mary Anderson Pew West Hall

Baseball Field

Mary Ethel Pew

Baseball Field

Memorial

Grassy Area east of building

Severe Weather/Tornado Shelters
Building
Alumni
Colonial Hall Apartments
Harker
Hicks
Hopeman
Ketler
Lincoln
Mary Anderson Pew North Hall
Mary Anderson Pew South Hall
Mary Anderson Pew West Hall
Mary Ethel Pew
Memorial

Shelter Locations
Racquetball courts, laundry rooms, bowling alley
Basement, 1st floor hallways
1st floor hallways
2nd floor, lounges, Bon Appetit kitchen
Basement hallway
Ketler Kitchen, back hallway, housekeeping lounge
1st floor hallways and bathrooms, RD apartment
Ground floor hallway
South Rec, Ground floor hallway
Mole Hole, Ground floor hallway
Ground floor hallway and restrooms
Ground floor hallway and restrooms

AED units are available at the following locations and can be used by anyone by following the
automated commands: Campus Safety Vehicles, Carnegie, Crawford (outside auditorium),
Harbison Chapel (vestibule), HAL (center of 2nd floor), Hicks Dining Hall, Hoyt, MAP Dining
Hall, Pew (right of auditorium lobby), Phillips Field House, PLC (1st floor in front of fitness
center), Rathburn, Rockwell (entrance from quad side), STU (1st floor right of mailroom), TLC,
Zerbe Health and Wellness Center.
43

Methods of Communication During an Emergency
The following methods of communication are available and may be utilized in the event of a campus
emergency. The usage of these tools will be dependent upon the set of circumstances present in the
situation or incident.
1. Campus Siren:
An outdoor audible siren has been installed on campus and may be used for notifying the campus community of weatherrelated situations or other emergency situations as deemed necessary by the emergency management team. The siren has
four programmed tones (all of which can be difficult to hear from inside certain buildings): weather-related, dangerous
situation, all-clear, and weekly test signal. Each of these tones are different. The tone for the weather-related incidents is a
high-pitched siren with intermittent voice instructions indicating the need to seek shelter. The tone for dangerous
situations has a modulated tone with intermittent voice instructions. The all-clear signal will be sounded after the situation
has been resolved (e.g. the all-clear signal may be sounded once a tornado warning has been lifted for the area.).

2. Voice/Text Messaging System:
A voice/text messaging system is available and will be used in situations as deemed necessary and
appropriate. There will be times where this system will be used in conjunction with the campus siren
and other times where it will be used with other communication methods or as the sole method of
communications. We strongly encourage you and your residents to sign-up for the emergency alert
notification on my.GCC. In the event of severe weather, tornado warning, or tornado watch it will
communicate instructions on where to go.
3. Email:
There will be times where the campus email system will be used as a mode of communication.
4. Website:
In the event of an emergency, there will be a prominently displayed text box on the GCC homepage
(www.gcc.edu) containing a link for the Emergency Operations Protocol (EOP). This website will
contain campus-wide responsibilities, evacuation procedures, and fire alarm assembly locations. If there
is not an active emergency taking place, the homepage will also indicate that there is not a current
emergency. If in the event there is an active emergency, this box will provide updated information
concerning the situation. In addition to the information provided above, all RAs are encouraged to look
through the EOP (Emergency Operation Plan) and the Campus Safety websites for further details on
services and responsibilities.
EOP website: http://www.gcc.edu/emergency_response_plan.php
Campus Safety website: http://info.gcc.edu/offices/security/

For emergency response protocol regarding the following: severe weather, power
outages, campus emergency notices, gunman/shooting, and bomb threats, please see
your RD and/or Student Life & Learning.

44

Zerbe Health & Wellness
Center
Grove City College is committed to the overall physical and mental health of every student. Zerbe Health and
Wellness Center maintains this philosophy by providing students a health service which is designed to treat
minor illnesses and injuries to full-time students at no cost. The staff at Zerbe are qualified health professionals
who are passionate about serving college students. Nurses are available daily. Doctors and counselors are
accessible by appointment at no charge. The health clinic and counseling center are independently operated and
do not share information between them. Additionally, all information is treated with strict confidentiality.
Students may be referred outside of the health center for additional services; in these instances, the student will
assume financial responsibility.

Health Clinic Hours
Phone Number: 724.458.3850
Monday-Friday: 8:00am-6:00pm
Saturday: 8 a.m. 4 p.m.
Sunday: Closed
College Physician’s Hours: by appointment starting at 3:30pm Monday-Friday. A doctor, nurses, and
physician’s assistants are available for first aid, assessment, and referral services.
In case of minor injury or sudden onset of illness, the health clinic can provide assessment, first aid, and referral
services to community providers. If a serious injury or illness occurs on campus, immediately call Campus
Safety at 724.458.3000. For the most minor medical issues, contact your RD who has access to a first aid kit
(i.e. cough syrup, over the counter pain relievers, band aids, antibiotic ointments).

Counseling Center Hours
Phone Number: 724.458.3788
Monday-Friday: 9:00am-5:00pm by appointment
Confidential counseling from male or female licensed professional counselors.
Scheduling an appointment can be through contacting the office directly by phone or emailing Michelle
Hummel at mhummel@gcc.edu. They also can receive walk-in clients in emergency situations. There is always
a counselor on call who will be contacted by the RD on duty, if necessary.

Counsel and Care
As an RA you will have the opportunity and privilege to journey through various personal challenges and crises
with your residents. Sometimes these will be temporary in nature and manageable in scope. Other times, you
may find yourself in conversation with a resident dealing with life altering trauma or loss. Please remember:
You are not a professional counselor, and are not expected to act as one. Your only job is to love your
residents by being a bridge to the counseling center, listening well, and create a caring atmosphere to the best of
your ability. The following pages are meant to offer general guidelines for serving your residents, and are in no
way de- signed to provide an exhaustive list of how to care for those struggling with emotional issues.

45

Counseling Center: Student
Referrals
A referral to the Counseling Center should be made by the RD or RA when it becomes apparent the student is
experiencing an emotional problem with which they are having difficulty. The three steps in making a referral
for professional counseling are outlined below:
1. Recognizing the signs for referral
a. Poor emotional control or excessive moodiness
b. Sleeping and eating habits that change dramatically
c. An unnatural preoccupation with personal health
d. Persistent and continued depression, all-consuming worry or despair
e. Observed suicidal warning signs or clues: (if observed, don’t take chances-address ASAP)
f. Talking openly about it or verbal threats- “You’d be better off without me”, “I wish I never woke
up again”, or “How much would it hurt if someone jump from here”
g. Substance (alcohol or drug) abuse is linked to suicide attempts
h. Changes in behavior-active people may become withdrawn or cautious people start taking unusual risks
i. Signs of Depression
2. Helping the student accept professional counseling
a. Make two facts clear to the student when making a referral:
i. seeking professional assistance is not an indication of mental illness and
ii. The student needs assistance.
3. Making the referral
a. Once the idea of seeing a counselor is accepted, have the student state the specific action s/he
will take.
b. Have the student agree verbally or in writing when they will contact the counseling center.
c. You may accompany them to the counseling center to make their initial appointment.
d. FOLLOW UP!

The Mental Health Crisis on Campus
Depression & Anxiety:
• 55% Felt things were hopeless
• 37% Felt so depressed that it was difficult to function
• 38% Are currently taking medication for depression
• 66% Felt overwhelmed by all they had to do
Impediments to Academic Performance:
• 45.4% of students did not get enough sleep the previous week to feel rested upon waking
• 21.3% reported sleep difficulties
• 16.6% concern for a troubled friend or family member
(Richard Kadison, Foy DiGeronimo, 2004, Jossey-Bass)
46

Common Health Risks Among College
Students
Depression
Affects nearly 1 in 10 people in the USA every year (Center for Disease Control and Prevention).
30% of all college students say they have felt so depressed that they found it difficult to function during the
school year (National Institute of Mental Health).
Contributing factors: stress, poor nutrition, lack of proper sleep, physical illness, personal loss, relationship
difficulties, and other disorders. May be expressed through the abuse of drugs/alcohol, sexual promiscuity,
aggressive/ risk-taking behavior.

Symptoms:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Reports of feeling “sad” or “empty.”
Diminished interest or pleasure in almost all daily activities.
Significant changes in weight (gain/loss of 5% or more in a month).
Insomnia or sleeping too much.
Deep fatigue or loss of energy.
Recurring thoughts of death.

What you can do:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Encourage them to go to the Counseling Center.
Encourage them to stick with their treatment plan (including prescribed medicine) if applicable.
Give emotional support by listening carefully, avoiding moral judgments or acting shocked, and be
careful not to argue or lecture. Complex issues don’t need quick answers or simple solutions. The
healing process make take a while.
Address the issue openly-don’t sidestep it. Be sure to encourage them that they can be helped.
Invite them to join you in different activities.
Do not accuse them of faking an illness or being overly dramatic.
Take any comments about suicide seriously (contact RD immediately).
You are NOT a trained professional; do not try to be their only support.

Eating Disorders
As many as 7 million women and 1 million men struggle with eating disorders. 95% of those with eating
disorders are between the ages of 12 and 25. Eating disorders have the highest mortality rate of any mental
illness (South Carolina Department of Health)

Anorexia:
•
•
•
•

Refusal to maintain normal body weight.
Intense fear of gaining weight.
Poorly perceived body image.
Excessive physical activity.
47

Bulimia:
•
•
•
•

Recurring episodes of binge eating
Self-induced vomiting and/or misuse of laxatives
Self-evaluation is unduly influenced by body shape and weight
Poor general health (absence of menstruation; hair, skin, and nail problems)

What you can do:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Talk to them. Listen carefully after asking the right questions
Focus on what s/he is going through emotionally
Encourage them to seek help, but don’t be overly forceful
Don’t try to be a nutritionist
Be careful how you talk and the language you use in and around campus. It will be difficult for someone
to see you as a safe place if you are known for saying certain things (i.e. “I’m so fat, I just gained 5lbscan you believe it?” or “That girl or that guy is so hot”)
Talk to a staff member (RD or counselor).
You are NOT a trained professional; do not try to be their only support.

Alcohol Abuse
•
•
•
•

1,800 college students a year die from unintentional alcohol-related causes, including deaths involving
drinking and driving
600,000 students suffer nonfatal injuries
400,000 students have unprotected sex while intoxicated
More than 100,000 students are too intoxicated to know whether they consented to sexual intercourse
(Hingson, et al., 2009)

Myths about drinking alcohol:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Everyone reacts to alcohol in the same way
Eating a big meal before you drink will keep you sober
Alcohol gives you energy
Consuming alcohol destroys brain cells
If someone passes out after drinking, it’s best to let them sleep it off
Beer is less intoxicating than other types of alcohol
One drink won’t affect your driving

What you can do:
•
•
•
•

Practice safe drinking (i.e. making sure you and others are of legal drinking age)
Report any drinking on campus (via campus policy)
If you encounter an intoxicated individual on campus, due to safety reasons, call the RD on-call
immediately
You are NOT a professional; do not try to be their only support

48

Stress and Anxiety
Stress and anxiety are a normal part of life experiences, however, it is important to consider the degree and
frequency that one is experiencing stress and anxiety in order to understand and properly identify the issues
related to specific triggers.

Symptoms:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Irritability, including loss of your temper
Fatigue
Muscle tension, headaches
Decreased concentration
Excessive worry or rumination
Dry mouth, difficulty swallowing
Abdominal pain (may be the only symptom of stress, especially in a child)
Dizziness
Rapid or irregular heart rate
Rapid breathing, sweating
Twitching or trembling
Sleeping difficulties and nightmares

What you can do:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Think through and find the source of stress and/or anxiety
o What do you worry about most?
o Is something constantly on your mind?
o Does anything make you sad or depressed?
o Are your thoughts adding to your anxiety in these situations?
Eat a well-balanced, healthy diet; don't overeat
Get enough sleep
Exercise regularly
Limit caffeine and alcohol
Don't use nicotine or other recreational drugs
Take breaks from work. Make sure to balance fun activities with your responsibilities
Spend time with people you enjoy
Keep a diary of the experiences and thoughts that seem to be related to your anxiety

Sexual Assault & Violence
Many people have been affected by sexual violence. Recent studies have found that 1 in 21 men and 1 in 5
women have been victims of sexual violence whether through abuse or assault on college campuses. But less
than 5% of assaults are reported because of the victim’s feelings of shame, fear, and misinformation
surrounding sexual traumas/assaults. Whether directly or indirectly, chances are you will have residents on your
floor this year who have been affected by sexual abuse or will be affected by sexual assault. Please see your RD
for further information regarding how to help someone who’s been a victim of sexual violence as these are
sensitive and complex issues. As a mandated reported, understanding sexual assault/violence is an important
part of your RA training.
49

Defining Sexual Assault:
Sexual Assault “includes unwanted sexual contact, such as forced fondling or kissing, or rape, which is the
penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a
sex organ of another person, without the consent of the victim.” (FBI, 2013)

Did you know:
•
•
•

20% of women and 4% of men are the victims of an attempted or completed sexual assault during
college.
42% of rape survivors told no one about the rape.
85% of victims know their attackers/violators.

What you can do:
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

The idea that someone you know has been sexually abused or assaulted can be intimidating or even
overwhelming, but it need not be immobilizing.
Listen calmly and non-judgmentally to the person’s story.
Validate the significance of what happened to him/her, and empathize with current feelings and
struggles.
If a victim of an alleged assault seeks you out immediately after the incident, it is strongly recommended
that evidence is gathered to aid in reporting details to authorities, so they can decide whether they can
prosecute. Victims should make every effort to save anything that might contain the perpetrator’s DNA,
therefore a victim should not:
o Bathe or shower
o Use the restroom
o Change clothes
o Comb hair
o Clean up the crime scene
o Move anything the offender may have touched
Please note that it is the victim’s choice to report or not, and, thus, they may not be ready to collect
evidence at the time of their confession to you.
Gently, but firmly help the person to understand the need to work through, in counseling, the effects of
the trauma. Offer him/her, without lessening the severity of the matter, the reassurance that these things
can, indeed, be worked through.
Help the person get connected with a qualified counselor who can refer to the counseling center and
explain how to go about setting up an appointment. It’s usually best if he/she personally makes the call
to the counseling center or goes to the office to schedule the appointment, but you can be standing by or
going along for encouragement.

Encourage them to seek out your RD who will explain to the victim their rights below, so they don’t have to
share their story multiple times:
Whether the victims alleged aggressor is a member of the campus community or not the victim can:
•
•
•
•

Report to the police
Report to the College
Report to both College and police
Not report (do nothing)

50

**Remind the victim that reporting the incident can protect someone else from being assaulted, but it is
ultimately his or her decision based on the rights above.
Follow-up with him/her as a concerned listener and support. Again, you are not a trained professional, so do not
feel responsible to fix their problems. Find out if Naomi love Chipotle or Qdoba and you’ll get your favorite
candy bar.

Myths about rape:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Rape only occurs between strangers in dark alleys
Victims provoke rape by the way they dress or act
Victims who drink alcohol or use drugs are asking to be raped
Rape is a crime of passion
If they did not scream, fight or get injured, it was not rape
You can tell if they 'really' have been raped by how they act
Victims cry rape when they regret having sex or want revenge

Sexual Abuse
Some traits that are common to those who have been sexually abused are the following:
• Low self-esteem
• People pleasing
• Fear of intimacy or physical touch
• Sexual identity issues
• Suicide attempts
• Inability to trust
• Difficulty expressing anger
• Depression
• Perfectionism
• Eating disorders
• Chemical dependency
• Tendency to sexualize relationships
• Feeling ashamed
• Feeling responsible for others

Note: Since some of these traits are exhibited by a number of people, none can be taken as definite
proof of sexual victimization. (They are only clues.)

Dealing with Death
Death is a difficult issue for many people to talk about. As an RA, you may have a resident lose a close
relative or friend. College students have special needs because they often are far from their support
system, and they need to deal with death within the context of their own lives at school.
When you try to assist a student who is dealing with the death of a friend or family member, the first
thing you can do is ask how you can help him or her. Make sure you are sincere in your offer. Empty
words of support do little good. In addition, since people are often reluctant to ask for help, try to
anticipate some small ways you can be supportive. Express your concern with a few words of affection
or by giving him or her a hug. Just letting the person know that your care is one important thing you
can do.
He or she may need to talk to someone. As a good listener, you need to be able to accept without
judgment whatever feelings the person expresses. Don’t attempt to tell the person how he or she feels
51

because you honestly don’t know. If he or she chooses not to talk, don’t force conversation. Silence
may be the best thing.
**Don’t expect the person to complete the mourning process overnight. It may take a year or more
before he or she is completely back to normal.

The Five Stages of Grief
1. Denial- It’s common to deny the reality of the situation by rationalizing overwhelming
emotions. It is a defense mechanism that buffers the immediate shock. This is a temporary
response that carries one through the first wave of pain.
2. Bargaining- These are “If only…” or “What if…” statements. We want life returned to what is
was; we want our loved one restored. We want to go back in time: find the tumor sooner,
recognize the illness more quickly, stop the accident from happening…if only, if only, if only.
Guilt is often bargaining’s companion. The “if only” causes us to find fault in ourselves and
what we think we could have done differently or would have done differently.
3. Anger-Anger is a necessary stage of the healing process. It’s important to allow yourself to feel
anger, even though it may seem endless. The more you truly feel it, the more it will begin to
dissipate and the more you will heal. The truth is that anger has no limits. It can extend not only
to your friends, the doctors, your family, yourself and your loved one who died, but also to God.
You may ask, “Where is God in this?
4. Depression- Empty feelings present themselves, and grief enters our lives on a deeper level,
deeper than we ever imagined. This depressive stage feels as though it will last forever. It’s
important to understand that this depression is not a sign of mental illness. It is the appropriate
response to a great loss. We withdraw from life, left in a fog of intense sadness, wondering,
perhaps, if there is any point in going on alone?
5. Acceptance- This stage is about accepting the reality that our loved one is physically gone and
recognizing that this new reality is the permanent reality. We can never replace what has been
lost, but we can make new connections, new meaningful relationships, new inter-dependencies.
Instead of denying our feelings, we listen to our needs; we move, we change, we grow, we heal,
and trust that God is good in this new reality.
**These stages can overlap, and the person may not go through them in this order. Please consult the
wisdom of your RD in determining where your resident is in this process.
In time, you may want to help the person get involved in some outside activities if he or she lacks the
initiative to go out on his or her own. If you feel one of your residents may be having extra difficulty
going through the grieving process, consult your Resident Director. Encourage the person to meet with
a counselor, too.
It is important to remember that grief will manifest itself. If it is not experienced and expressed within
the emotional dimension, it will be expressed in physical, mental and spiritual dimensions in a way that
may be harmful to the student. You want to encourage the student to experience healthy bereavement,
owning the pain and allowing grief to be felt fully.

52

Homesickness
It is not uncommon for most college age persons to deny that they feel homesick. The negative
stereotype is one of young children at summer camp for the first time with tears rolling down their
cheeks. Homesickness does not have to have those same stigmas or connotations that some people are
quick to attribute to it. Homesickness seldom suggests too much of a dependence on family members,
nor is it a sign of maladjustment, but it can be. For most individuals, homesickness is a perfectly normal
reaction to the fact that they miss those very important, significant people they’ve left at home. Find out
Hanna’s hometown and you’ll get your favorite snack from the grocery store.
Listed below are a few of the major contributors to the adjustment problems that students experience.
If they’re aware of these, students can at least understand what is causing their uneasiness at school and
perhaps avoid it completely. When students understand these concepts, other scapegoats such as the
school, the residence hall, the professors, and the course material won’t be blamed needlessly for their
unhappiness. Here are some pointers:
1. Any change or move in life is going to cause anxiety and insecurity. If students give themselves
a few weeks to get used to the new routines, it will not be long before they will feel comfortable
here. It is important to note that this is common for both freshman as well as
upperclassmen.
2. Certain college courses throughout one’s college career are not as daunting or impossible as they
first seem. When students are first introduced to their courses, the workload often appears
intimidating. Everyone experiences these types of feelings, only to find out that once they start
doing some of the work and when they structure their time and discipline themselves, they can
navigate the workload well.
3. It is important that a student not leave home thinking that the harmony of their family depends
on him/ her. For example, many students leave home knowing that their parents don’t get along
or that mom or dad has a problem with alcohol, for example. In turn, they feel responsible for
keeping things under control. If one cannot shed this responsibility, he/she should take advantage
of the Counseling Center; it is not a realistic responsibility for a student to put upon
himself/herself. It is true that couples often wait to dissolve a marriage until all the children are
out of the house. But if a student happens to be the last one to leave home, that does not make
him/her responsible for the parents’ breakup.
4. Leaving a close friend behind is also a factor to making life at the new school more difficult.
When one leaves a girlfriend or boyfriend at home or at another school, that person is usually
left quite unhappy. These students may get more involved with that friend on visits home every
weekend.
5. Some students come to school with their boyfriend or girlfriend. Although this might sound like
a sure way to avoid homesickness, it often complicates the relationship. People are forced into
different roles at school, and they meet new friends. The result can be isolating and alienating.
There are many other factors that contribute to homesickness, and those listed above are not allencompassing. What the student should realize is that most people undergo some sort of adjustment
period for which we use the term “homesickness.” Knowing this, students will cope much better in their
new surroundings. There is no shame in being homesick, and the wise thing for student to do is to seek
help in dealing with it so that it will not hinder their college experience.
53

APPENDICES
54

Appendix 1-RA of the Year
Encouragement
2024 RA of the Year Winner Letters:
Dear RAs,
Another RA this past year had a giant blank white sheet of paper with the title “Hot Takes” and a marker to write with on
her hall. Here is my hot take for you: there ought not be such thing as ‘me time.’
Our culture has an overwhelming tendency to emphasize focusing on yourself and on what you need. There are
countless self-help books out there, countless podcasts, countless advertisements all directing your attention and energy
on yourself. Just about everyone buys into this because the limit to human energy (emotional, relational, mental,
physical) is real and apparent. I do not wish to discount that.
Let me pose an idea that should not be a surprise to anyone: we have an all-powerful and sovereign God who loves us
despite our weakness and wants to see us grow in Him and in His ways. Hopefully, I didn’t catch anyone off-guard
there. His grace is the only reason we wake up each day. It’s the only reason we know how to love and how to do what
we love. So, what happens if we stop pretending, we have our own means to do anything? What happens if we rely
solely on God for the energy, we need to be good RAs?
I don’t think you’ll burn out, even without ‘some time to yourself’. That’s a sizeable topic in the discussion of
‘balancing’ life. People (including myself) like to say we should have, “moderation in all things”. I don’t believe that’s
true. By human means, absolutely- if there were no balance of different facets of life, life would fall apart. We do not,
however, rely on human means. To affirm the idea of moderation (including ‘me time’) is to deny the power of
God. He can, will, and does give us what we need, including rest, if we will trust Him.
Now, I recognize that humans are limited. We are sinful and fallen. We cannot perfectly trust God, so we will fail; so
long as we trust Him, however, we will not. He has your good in mind in everything He does. He will provide rest
when you need it. He will give you hard work when you need it. He can even use the pain and the hurt and the
exhaustion for your good.
Trust Him. He will teach you His ways and guide you in His truth. Part of that is seeking others’ good above your
own. That might mean having to give up something you love doing to love others, including your residents. Trust
Him. It is worth it.

Love,
Willl Herman ‘25

55

Dear ResLife,
What a role you have been given for such a time as this. No matter how you were placed on your hall, or who you will
be serving, there was a purpose behind it all. Sometimes, unfortunately, it is easy for that purpose to get lost. So, make
sure your purpose runs deeper than getting that huge paycheck, or following in your sibling’s footsteps, or serving
campus well. What is your purpose, what is your why behind your role to serve campus in this way. If you play football
you will laugh at what I am about to say, but you need a vision. A vision keeps you focused, keeps you fueled, and helps
you finish, thanks for that Coach Dido.
However, even with a solid vision being an RA is not easy, so it is a huge blessing that you are not alone. Your team is
there for a reason, and you will need them in difficult times. Your RD is an amazing resource, do not overlook their
wisdom. Seek advice whenever possible, ask as many questions as possible. You have been given a chance to practice
practical leadership while around 80 other people are doing the same thing, there is no need for a question to go
unanswered. Then there is your biggest support system and guide, the Lord. He is what will carry you when the
conversations get too heavy, or the paperwork and rounds get exhausting. He is who speaks to a resident when you do
not have the words. Lean on the Lord, seek his presence every day, ask him to fill your work and guide your actions.
Then be vulnerable, share about success and failure. I have never been more encouraged than when I am let into
someone’s failure, and I can watch others build them up and guide them through that rough patch. Everyone is going to
have a different experience with team dynamics, but I promise you that the people on your team will have so much to
teach you. ResLife teams are some of the most diverse groups of people you will ever see doing life together, and that is
a huge blessing. Not all problems can be solved by looking at it from the same perspective, God created us to work in
community and solved problems together. Do not miss the opportunity to share and grow with your teammates.
Finally, some practical things. No matter who you are serving, freshman, Greek life, independents, or upperclassmen in
apartments they all just want to be respected and loved. Now that love will be played out differently depending on your
relationship with them and their place on campus but in the end it all comes back to loving your residents well. For me
sometimes that looked like simply getting them supplies when they needed them, I would only hear from some people
when they needed something from me. So, I took the opportunities they gave me to love them well. With other residents
I was able to build a relationship and get meals with them, that was how I loved them well, by investing in their lives.
Others seemed like they avoided me like the plague but whenever I got the chance, I would just say hello, that was me
loving them well, calling them by name with a friendly hello. As an RA sometimes loving someone well looks like
sitting with them through unbearable things, and that is loving them well, even when you do not have the words. So love
your residents well, answer questions that seem self-explanatory, get them soap or paper towels for the 50th time that
semester, unlock their door when the continually refuse to remember their key, help them bunk their bed, take our their
trash, say hello, sit with them in the low times, and invest in their lives. Serve well and enjoy where the Lord has placed
you.

In Pursuit of knowing Him,
Holly Grose 24’

56

Appendix 2- Incident Reports
An Insufficient Incident Report:

57

A Good Incident Report:

58

Maxient Incident Report Format:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Log in on my.gcc
Click the Student Life Tab
On the left hand side click reports/forms
Click on Incident Report Form

59

Appendix 3- Hall Meeting Agendum
I. Introductions
A. As you introduce yourself supply information about who you are (personality, major, interests, fun fact,
what you love about Grove City, etc.).
B. Express your hopes for what you want this year to be about for all the residents on the floor/hall. It’s
important to give your residents ownership, by encouraging them to play a role in helping each other
belong, confronting each other appropriately, attending programs, eating meals together, etc. *Peruse
floor vision section of community building manual for ideas.
C. Ask your residents for input for how they would like the floor/hall community to function. What
programs or activities would like to be a part of, etc. *Please consider using the floor feedback form to
gathering information in an efficient way.
II. Responsibilities of the RA
A. What the RA does (uphold policy, facilitate events, Bible/book studies, prayer, maintenance requests,
influence community and personal growth and care, etc.).
B. What the RA can’t do (promote offensive pranks, clean up pranks that aren’t his/her doing, make
exceptions on policy violations, unlock doors that aren’t yours, etc.).
C. How to contact the RA (your general schedule, leaving notes, or e-mail)
III. Information about the hall
A. Facilities & Procedures
1. Bike Storage
2. Laundry Machines (expectations, etc.)
3. Cleaning up after yourself (vacuums, bathroom, common areas)
4. Quiet Hours
5. Decorating guidelines
6. Lost keys
7. Reporting maintenance issue
B. Hall Security
1. Make sure your room is locked when you leave and make sure hall/outside door are not
propped open.
2. What they should do if they are locked out
3. Missing persons
IV. Policies and Regulations*
A. Safety
1. No candles or incense or flames of any kind.
2. Misusing of fire extinguishers or tampering with fire alarms is a federal offense and will
result in fines or sanctions.
3. No throwing things out of windows
4. Fines or sanctions will result if pranks are handled with disrespect of residents,
housekeeping, RA or RD.
B. Pets
C. Miscellaneous
1. Furniture is not to be removed from the lounge, nor out of any residential room.
60

2. Don’t take dishes from the dining hall unless they are your personal dishes-otherwise they
don’t belong to you.
3. Overnight Guest policy (JotForm, time limit)
4. General duty schedule of RAs and RDs (informing them that they will see different
RAs/RDs walking the halls/responding to the on-call system).
5. No sports in the hallways; take it outside or to the gym.
6. Roommate Mediation or Issues- come talk to the RA first
D. Emergency Procedures
1. How to contact campus safety
2. Purpose of the RA on Duty
E. Getting Involved
1. Floor activities/programs
2. Bible/Book studies/prayer gathering
3. Local churches
4. Intramural Sports together
5. Chapel together
6. Movie nights
*During your discussion of specific policies, you should clearly define your role as an RA, incidents
(major & minor) where you will intervene and expectations of residents’ behavior. You are not a
policeman, but you want to be clear and firm (you can always relax later, but this sets the tone) that
you will ensure the integrity of the hall to our campus values and policies.
This is merely a sample outline. Please consult your RD for hall/floor specifics as to what they would
prefer you cover.

61

Appendix 4- The Building Blocks of Community
Roommate Relationships
The quality of relationships between roommates on your floor will affect the kind of community you will
be able to build on your hall. Most people assume that because they live together, they will have a great
relationship with their roommates – but just like any other relationship, it takes work and investment to
develop depth and quality.
It is important that you, as the RA on their hall, encourage strong roommate relationships and even do
programming that enhances roommate relationships before signs of problems come to your attention. It’s
much harder to heal broken relationships than to build better ones, so think proactively!
Things you can encourage your residents to do to build stronger roommate relationships:
Communicate:
•
•
•

•

Many problems and misunderstandings can be prevented by communicating with one’s
roommate in the beginning of the year (i.e. roommate covenant).
Communicate when something begins to be bothersome. Don’t wait until you’re at your
breaking point.
The most effective communication happens face to face. When we address someone in person,
we ensure that we communicated what we wanted to communicate and addressed any questions
or clarified any points that the other party found unclear. Using emails, post-it notes and passiveaggressive comments are not ways to effectively communicate or bring about resolution.
Don’t forget to communicate positive things, too!

Be upfront about expectations:
•
•

•

Set some ground rules for how things will work in your room. (Ask your RD for a copy of a
room- mate agreement form. See the end of this section for an example of one).
It is healthy for roommates to talk about their expectations for each other prior to living together
rather than trying to read between the lines all year. If everyone knows what’s expected of them,
then their relationship as roommates is more likely to go smoothly during the year. (One example
of a rule might be, “Overhead lights will be turned out by midnight on weekdays and 12:30am
on weekends. Desk lamps and reading lights are okay.”)
Create some comical rules to add to the list with funny “punishments” to do if someone breaks
one of the rules. Adding something like this to the “Room Rules” makes things fun and adds
something that roommates can laugh about and build relationships over (and eases the tension
when something is wrong).

Prayer:
God can do so much through prayer that cannot be accomplished any other way. When we pray for
someone, God gives us a love for that person that we could never conjure on our own. He can also change
hearts and situations when we simply ask through prayer.

62

•

Commit to praying for your roommate every day.
Share prayer requests and post them in the room somewhere where all roommates can see
them and pray for them.
Pray for your hall or a campus organization together.
Set aside some time to pray together weekly.

•
•
•

Spend time together as friends and roommates:
Sometimes relationships get tense because people don’t have quality time together. Tension can
sometimes be dissolved just having fun!
• Meal dates.
• Find and attend a church together.
• Frisbee, running, bike rides, etc.
• Take another set of roommates on your hall out on a “date.”
• Join IM teams.
• Spend time doing something that the other roommate enjoys.
• Remembering silly memories or stories that you’ve had together.
• Visiting each other’s hometown.

Things to Consider
•
•
•

Can the situation in the room be improved by rearranging the furniture?
Scheduling solo time in the room for each roommate can be extremely helpful.
Writing a roommate contract for roommates can also be helpful! Be sure to post it in the room!

Addressing Roommate Conflict
Conflict within community is a normal part of living with others and is healthy if handled correctly. Although confronting
conflict can be difficult, talking about issues and finding a compromise is the best way to have a comfortable relationship.
The ability to handle conflict well is something residents will need for the rest of their lives. Walking through this process
can be incredibly fruitful, both for you and for the residents who are involved.

Early Signs of Roommate Concerns/Conflicts:
• A student is rarely in his/her room
• There seems to be tension or a lack of communication between roommates
• Negative notes on white boards or social media
• A rift in the hall community that divides roommates
• A resident is going home a lot
• “Chatter” on the hall about some roommates
Steps for Handling Roommate Concerns/Conflicts:
•
•
•
•

Encourage them to first try talking with their roommate about the issue(s) on their own.
Ask them to find a time that their roommate will also be in the room and to share their concern
honestly, but gently and in person.
If their roommate isn’t in the room much, have them set-up a time that they and their roommate
can get together and have time to talk without time pressure.
Often roommates feel bad addressing their concern with their roommate. Reassure them that
communication will only make things better if done properly. This person can also ask their
roommates if they have any concerns that they want to address in order to clear the air.

63

Roommate Mediation Steps
1. Decide whether to mediate. Don’t set up a mediation unless the roommates have tried to
work it out themselves first (or refuse to do so).
2. Meet with all roommates individually before holding roommate mediation.
Acknowledge to yourself your own prejudices.
3. Make sure to meet with all the roommates, not only those who seem to be the center of
the problem (if you are dealing with a triple or quad).
• Hear each person’s side of the story.
• Explain what the mediation will look like.
• Ask questions to figure out what the problem is or what each roommate wants to change.
• Ask the roommates to be open, communicative and flexible.
4. Hold the mediation in a neutral location. This minimizes the emotion and levels the
playing field, particularly if there is one dominant personality involved in the
discussion.
• Your role should be as one of a neutral party and facilitator (even if you are not neutral).
• Don’t allow the meeting to drag on. Try to limit it to one hour.
5. Do less directing and more facilitating. Ask questions, clarify language when
necessary, but let the residents do most of the talking.
• Stay away from accusatory language. Try to frame your comments in the positive
instead of the negative (for example, “Here’s where we can grow…” instead of “Here’s
where we have failed…”).
• Use inclusive language when appropriate. Everybody in the room contributes to the
problem, not just a single student!
• Step in when necessary. Don’t allow one student to get steamrolled or another to
withdraw and not be active in the process.
• Remain positive and hopeful. Acknowledge when compromises are made.
6. Create action points for each student, even those who may not have issues in the room.
7. Summarize the meeting before you break. Make sure each person understands their
action points moving forward.
• The action points should be specific.
• Take notes during the meeting and write down all the action points. This allows you
to remember what was said and to be able to hold them to what was agreed upon.
8. Set-up a follow-up meeting to check-in approximately two weeks after the conversation.

64

Sample Roommate Agreement Form
Establishing good communication from the start of your relationship with your roommate(s) is vital to dealing
with is- sues faithfully throughout the year. You will soon find that you and your roommate will have a
surprising amount of similarities as well as some differences. This form can be used to learn about each other’s
preferences, help establish specific and clear expectations for living and studying habits, and identify potential
issues that may arise as the year progresses.

Establishing Healthy Expectations:
Read through the list of questions together and be sure to verbally process as well as document what the
other person communicates. Ask clarifying questions like “what do you mean by that” or “can you talk
more about that please” —also, try to repeat back to each other what was said by the other person
(“what I heard you say is ….is that correct?).
*It’s important to note that expectations and habits may change over time, so make sure you revisit this list a
few times a year.
1. Studying/Working: What will my study habits look like this semester (will they be different than
next)?
• When and where I like to study is:
• I am ok with the following noise while I study:
• I have a hard time studying when:
2. Cleanliness: How important is it for you to have the room clean and orderly?
• I will pick up my messes in the room (when/time frame):
• Will you establish any chores for each roommate? Who cleans what?
3. Sleeping: How much sleep do you need and when do you like to head to bed for the night?
• Any other times you like to sleep (naps)?
• In what condition do you like the room to be in order to sleep well (noise, lighting, etc.)?
4. Borrowing: what is okay and not okay to borrow?
• What items would you prefer not to have other touch?
• If barrowing something, what method of communication is appropriate (face to face, text, note,
sign-out sheet)?
5. Friends & Significant Others: What preference do you have with hosting people in your room?
• Is there a preferred method of communication about who/what/when of the social gathering?
• Is it okay to use the room to have private conversations without the other roommate present?
• How many times a week is appropriate to have someone else in our room? When?
• What are your plans for dating this semester?
• Is it appropriate to talk on the phone in the room? If so, when and for how long?
6. Conflict or Problem: How will you appropriately communicate any issues or conflict of
interests/preferences?
• How do you plan on disagreeing with respect and finding a way to compromise?
• How do you prefer we approach one another with conflicts or issues that arise?
• How hard is it for you to let people know what you are feeling or what you need?
7. Pet Peeves: What are a few of your pet peeves that are related to the 6 topics above?
• How will you appropriately address them while giving the other person grace in the moment?
8. Other issues you would like to discuss (medical, physical, mental, social, spiritual)
• Are there ways we can encourage each other spiritually?
• Are there times you prefer to be left alone?

Signatures:
65

Appendix 5- Transferable RA Skill
Use this list to give you an idea of what the RA role encompasses, and when you’ve finished your
year, feel free to use some of these terms on your resume!

66

Appendix 6- Using Astra
How to Reserve a Room on Astra
The following write up should walk you through the process for reserving a room online, using the Astra
Scheduling system, which is the system used by Grove City College. This may look complicated, but it’s
mostly because it’s de- tailed. This should not take longer than five minutes.

Here’s what you need to do:
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.

7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Go to the Astra Scheduling page, which is linked on the homepage of my.GCC. The link is on the lefthand side of the page and is titled “GCC EVENT/MEETING REQUESTS” You can also use this link to
go there directly: http://aais/AstraSchedule/Portal/GuestPortal.aspx
Click on the green button in the center of the page that says, “Request Event.”
Follow the instructions on the next page. Give your event a name.
Under “Select an Event Request Form,” select one of two options from the drop-down menu.
•
“GCC Meeting Room Request without Resource” – if you simply need a room, a space to hold
your event, and you will be providing everything you need.
•
“GCC Campus Event Request Form” – select this option to request an event that would
require any college resource such as movable furniture, media needs or services. This would
include having tables delivered to your location, getting access to a media room in HAL, etc.
Click “Next” to proceed, and fill in the information on the next page.
Click “Add/Remove Meetings.”
•
Add a description in the appropriate box (this is not required, but can be helpful if you need to explain
the function of your meeting).
•
Select the Meeting Type from the dropdown menu.
•
Fill in an estimate of the attendance.
•
Make sure the Requires Room box is checked
•
Select the correct start/end date and start/end times, leaving time for setup and cleanup if necessary.
•
Once that’s done, click “Add Meeting” This creates a meeting that is then listed on the right side of
the current page.
Click the “Request Room” button, which takes you to a new page.
Click the dropdown menu and select the building you want. The page will refresh, showing you all rooms
that can be reserved.
If the room is available, click on it. Your selection should be clearly indicated. Click the “Save and Update
Request” button.
You should now be back at the Event Information page. Confirm that the information is correct.
Click the “Submit Request” button, which should complete the reservation.
A confirmation email is then sent to the email address listed in the reservation. A second email is sent in a
day or so confirming that your request was approved.

Important notes
It takes about a day or two to process requests, so they need to be submitted at least two days in advance. They
should be done at least a week in advance to ensure the space is available and that the site administrator is
available to approve your request.
If you have any questions, please contact Mrs. Patty Priester, as she oversees this process.
Requests are processed during regular business hours. If you submit a request on Friday evening to use a
room on Sunday evening, it will not get processed. Please plan accordingly.
67

Appendix 7- Programming
Ideas by Month
Student Needs by Month:
September

October

November

Homesickness/loneliness
Back-to-school blues
Scheduling difficulties
Roommate conflicts
Exploring personal values

Text anxiety and midterms
Job hunt
Time management
Eating disorders
Personal fitness

Finals & academic pressures
Thanksgiving
Roommate conflicts
Suicide/mental health awareness
Understanding depression

December

January

February

Final exam pressure
Sexuality and relationships
Family strains/home life
Proper rest/effects of little sleep
Physical and mental health

SADD (dark, rainy days)
Academic anxiety
Job/internship search
Relationship issues
Starting the new semester

Cabin fever
Vocation and major choice
Continued worries about summer
Building healthy relationships

March

April

May

Setting appropriate goals
Housing for the following year
Roommate selection
Interview preparations

Exams and papers
Financial planning
Relationships
Time management after college

Finals Graduation
Saying goodbye well
Job panic (Seniors and summers)
Stewardship

68

Appendix 8- Fire Extinguisher Use

69

Types of Fire Extinguishers
1.

2.
3.

4.

5.
6.
7.

Water and Foam: Water extinguishers are used for Class A fires only and foam
extinguishers can be used on Class A and B fires only. Neither is used on Class C fires
due to the shock hazard.
Carbon Dioxide: Can be used on Class B and C fires. They are usually ineffective on
Class A fires.
Dry Chemical: A multipurpose dry chemical is the most widely used extinguisher; it
is effective on Class A, B, and C fires. Ordinary dry chemical is for Class B and C fires
only.
Wet Chemical: Also referred to as a Class K extinguisher. Developed for deep fat
fryers in commercial cooking operations. May also be used on Class A fires in
commercial kitchens.
Clean Agent: Primarily used for Class B and C fires. Some larger clean agent
extinguishers can be used on Class A, B, and C fires.
Dry Powder: Used for Class D or combustible metal fires only. They are ineffective
on all other classes of fires.
Water Mist: Used primarily for Class A fires but are safe for use on Class C fires as
well.

Rules for Fighting Fires
Remember the three A’s:
• ACTIVATE the building alarm system or notify the fire department by calling 911 (or have
someone else do this)
• ASSIST any persons in immediate danger, or those incapable on their own, to exit the
building, without risk to yourself
• ATTEMPT to extinguish the fire ONLY after the first two are completed
Only fight a fire:
• If the fire is small and contained If you are safe from toxic smoke
• If you have a means of escape If your instincts tell you it’s okay
• The time to use a fire extinguisher is in the early stage of the fire. Once the fire starts to
grow or spread, it is best to evacuate the building, closing doors and windows behind you.

Fire Extinguisher Use:
When it is time to use an extinguisher on a fire, just remember PASS:
• PULL the pin
• AIM the nozzle or hose at the base of the fire from the
recommended safe distance
• SQUEEZE the operating lever to discharge the fire extinguishing
agent
• SWEEP the nozzle or hose from side to side until the fire is out. Move forward or around
the fire area as the fire diminishes.

70

Appendix 9- RD Job Description
This 10-month full-time, live-in position reports directly to the Director of Residence Life and is
primarily responsible for establishing and maintaining a living-learning environment that fosters
intellectual, interpersonal, physical, and spiritual development with- in his assigned residence hall.
Responsibilities
General:
1. Affirm the mission, goals, and Christian heritage of Grove City College through both personal and
professional behavior.
2. Affirm the centrality and applicability of his Christian faith through personal behavior and
expression of values and ideals which are projections of that faith.
3. Demonstrate support for the philosophy of the Grove City College Student Life & Learning
office, the programs of Residence Life, and the Grove City College regulations and
ordinances directing community behavior and personal lifestyle.
4. Maintain a daily visible presence in assigned residence hall.
5. Engage fully as a member of the Residence Life and Student Life & Learning teams.
6. Become involved in the Student Life & Learning program, Grove City College, and the
local Christian community by advising student groups, attending chapel programs, and
participating in campus activities and community events when possible.
7. Value and infuse collaboration as a necessary component for effective and meaningful work,
leadership and service.
8. Pursue continuing education and knowledge of current trends in student development.
Supervision:
1. Select, train, supervise, and encourage RA staff.
2. Conduct weekly staff meetings to disseminate information, provide training experiences,
foster personal and professional growth, and develop a sense of team cohesiveness and
vision.
3. Hold biweekly one-on-one mentoring sessions with RAs to develop both personal and professional
growth.
4. Maintain regular contact and open communication with each RA.
5. Create and facilitate regular RA staff development opportunities.
6. Coordinate RA “on duty” schedule.
7. Assist RA staff with regular programming intended to address general developmental needs
and the specific needs of those living in assigned residence hall.
8. Facilitate regular RA leadership development opportunities.
9. Provide guidance, support, and information needed for RAs to fulfill their responsibilities in a timely
manner.
10. Review each RA’s progress toward goals; provide support, guidance, and redefinition of those goals.
11. Select, train, supervise, and encourage student desk staff in the following areas if applicable to
assigned residence hall.
a. Coordinate and schedule use of common spaces and building supplies.
b. Train desk staff in appropriate College policies and emergency response protocols.
c. Assign other desk staff responsibilities as needed.
71

Administration:
1.
Counsel students when appropriate, and refer students to other College personnel as needed.
2.
Communicate and employ Residence Life policies, procedures, and emergency protocol.
a. Appropriately confront students who are living unhealthy lifestyles and/or violating community
standards.
b. Keep the VP, Dean and Director of Residence Life and Assistant Director of Residence
Life apprised of current and/or potential problems involving residents, parents, guests,
etc.
c. Oversee adjudication of disciplinary cases involving students as assigned by VP, Dean, or
Director of Residence Life and Assistant Director of Residence Life.
d. Assess fines for hall damages and minor policy violations when necessary.
3.
Oversee student check-in, check-out, and room inspections.
4.
Serve as the primary contact for maintenance and housekeeping requests. Partner with
Operations to maintain a comfortable and hazard-free living environment in assigned hall.
5.
Coordinate with the appropriate campus offices to secure the safety and well-being of all residents
and guests.
6.
Conduct bi-monthly fire drills in conjunction with the Campus Safety Department.
7.
Manage building programming and staff development budgets.
8.
Attend weekly Residence Life staff meetings.
9.
Serve as the Residence Director on-duty as scheduled.
10. Serve on Residence Life and/or Student Life committees as assigned by the VP and/or Director of
Residence Life.
11. Carry out additional duties as assigned by the Director of Residence Life.
Qualifications
Education: A Bachelor's degree from an accredited institution. A Master's degree or graduate education in a related field is
preferred.
Professional Experience: One to two years in residence life or related experience preferred.
Preferred Strengths:
• Have a clearly stated philosophy of higher education and spiritual formation, and the ability to articulate how that
philosophy influences one’s work within the residential setting.
• Display strong interpersonal and confrontational skills.
• Demonstrate a commitment and ability to mentor and disciple college students and train student leaders.
• Evidence sound administrative skills and the ability to coordinate and manage both people and tasks.
• Exhibit strong written and verbal communication skills.
• Candidates must have a valid Driver’s License.
• Candidate must be able to negotiate buildings to the top floor where no elevator is present and where several
flights of stairs may exist.
Personal Character: Must demonstrate strong integrity and a Christian commitment consistent with the mission
and values of Grove City College. Must demonstrate the discernment and maturity needed to negotiate the
demands of working in a staff- directed/student-led environment. A high level of professionalism and moral
judgment are also required.

72

DIRECTORY
73

Colonial Hall Apartments

Abby Bartel

Joshua Belitz

Quincy Chapman

Braeden Farley

Johanna Kiester

Elsa Miller

Bradyn Strawser

Sarah Sassaman

Will Herman (ARD)

Si Mitchell (RD)

74

Harker Hall

Joslyn Borah

Isabel Golias

Cecilia Landis

Elika Weaver

Erin Slippy (RD)

75

Julia Schnur

Hicks Hall

Alex Bepristis

Nate Ehst

John Garrett

Caleb Haller

Same Rees

Connor Senechal

Zachary Wilson

Ethan Zimmerman

Daniel Hollidge (RD)

76

Hopeman Hall

Micah Gaydos

Jed Hart

Jonathan Idoni

Carter Manwaring

Christian Royer

David Stoner

Evan Wright

Isaac Young

Isaac Cooke (RD)

77

Ketler Hall

Luke Colbert

Alex Colcombe

Logan Fox

Caleb Kapusinski

Ethan Klie

Sam Mayfield

Brenden Park

Jared Schellin

Andrew Trumbore

Isaiah Zimmerman

Ethan Kesterholt (ARD)

Chris Merrick (ADRL)

78

Lincoln & Alumni Halls

Abe Gould

Kenny Lavrich

Ryan Lenhart

David Marsh

Adam Nicholson

Judah-David Shay (A)

Caleb Vogues

Ben Meekin (RD)

79

Memorial Hall

Noah Byun

Tucker Owens

David Cowher

Stuart Hochstetler

Isaac Wick

80

John Mitterer

Christian Butera (RD)

MEP Hall

Kiersten Elliot

Natalie Gilkinson

Lily Lagaras

Abigail Joyner

Abby Plank

Sydney Redmon

Kassidy Schlemmer

Carrie Suprenant

Hanna Kincer (RD)

81

North Hall

Raina Boykin

Meg Daugherty

Katie Davis

Ella Herrenbruck

Jasmine Hoagland

Eleni Kasianides

Abby Killam

Lydia Maloney

Grace Burns (ARD)

82

Naomi Hollgarth (ADRL)

South & West Halls

Annelies Boonzaaijer

Brooke Delamarter

Alaina Donnel

Clancey Herring

Corrine Lindberg

Emma Manwaring

Grace Mayville

Delaney Miller

Catherine Moore

Kristin Musser

Hannah Phillips (ARD)

Jessie Gayer (RD)

83

Kathy Leonard
Director of
Academic Advising

Kristen
Hilfiger
Assistant to the
Registrar

Dr. Matt Vogel
Director of
Disability Services

Office of Student Life & Learning

Larry Hardesty
Vice President
Student Life & Learning

Diana King
Executive Assistant to the
Vice President for SL&L

Emily Grossman
Director of Student
Recreation

Renee Coyne
Director of Career Services

Joe Cirelli
Associate Dean
Student Life & Learning

Zolane Gordon
Staff Assistant in
Zerbe

Tori Wright
Director of
Residence Life

Heather Carothers
Office Manager

Katie Van
Dam
Director of
Student
Engagement

Naomi Hollgarth
Asst. Director of
Residence Life

Lindsay Luciano
Asst. Dir. Of Career Services

Eric Fehr
Assistant Dean
Student Life & Learning

Kendall Hunter
Director of Imago Dei
Offi

Chris Merrick
Asst. Director of
Residence Life

Joanne Smith
Asst. Director of Career Services

Counseling Center & Campus Safety

Jeff Richter
Director of the
Counseling Center

Alex
Gressinger
Counselor

Seth VanTil
Director of Campus
Safety

Sheryl
Anderson
Counselor

Cara
Pompay
Counselor

Kent McFadden
Assistant Director of
Campus Safety

Officer
Richard Cramer

Officer
Glenn Grube

Patrolman
Scott Sanderson

Officer
Shawn Shumaker

Molly
Hepner
Counselor

Liam Wanner
Communications Manger

Patrolman
Jeff Brown

Officer
Jermone Lynch

Patrolman
Logan Shumaker

Michelle
Hummel
Staff Assistant

Officer Jim Dickson
Department Coordinator

Officer
Clint Coyer

Officer
Matt McFeeley

Officer
Jason Vandergrift

